# It is in Jerusalem that my name will be placed forever

The name is a metonym for the person. Also, this can be stated in active form. AT: "Jerusalem is where I will forever make known who I am" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metonymy]] and [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-activepassive]])

# He built altars for all the stars of heaven in the two courtyards of the house of Yahweh

It is implied that he built these altars so people could make sacrifices and worship the stars. Also, he would not have built these altars himself, rather he would have commanded his workers to do it. AT: "He had his workers build altars in the two courtyards of the house of Yahweh so that the people could worship the stars and offer them sacrifices" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-explicit]] and [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metonymy]])

# Valley of Ben Hinnom

This is the name of a place near Jerusalem that is also known as Gehenna. (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/translate-names]])

# he put his sons into the fire

You may need to make explicit why he put his son in the fire and what happened after he did so. AT: "he burned his sons to death as an offering to his gods" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-explicit]])

# consulted

"asked for information from"

# the dead

This refers to dead people. AT: "dead people" or "those who are dead" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-nominaladj]])

# He practiced much evil in the sight of Yahweh

Here Yahweh's "sight" refers to how he judges or decides on the value of something. See how you translated a similar phrase in [2 Chronicles 14:2](../14/01.md). AT: "He did many things that Yahweh said were evil" or "He practiced the things that Yahweh considered evil" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metaphor]])

# translationWords

* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/pagan]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/altar]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/houseofgod]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/name]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/command]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/forever]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/heaven]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/courtyard]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/sorcery]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/spirit]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/angry]]