# behold

"indeed" This word is used here to draw the readers attention to the information that follows.

# they are written ... they are written about

These phrases can be stated in active form. AT: "men have written them ... men have written about them" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-activepassive]])

# the deeds of the kings of Israel

This in account of the history of Israel that no longer exists.

# the places where he had built high places and set up the Asherah poles and the carved figures

Manasseh did not do the building and construction himself, rather, he commanded his workers to do it. AT: "the place where he had the high places built and the Asherah poles and the carved figures set up" or "the places where he commanded his workers to build the high places and to set up the Asherah poles and carved figures" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metonymy]])

# the Chronicles of the Seers

This is a book that no longer exists.

# So Manasseh slept with his ancestors

This is a euphemism. AT: "So Manasseh died" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-euphemism]])

# in his own house

"in his palace"

# Amon

This is the name of a man. (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/translate-names]])

# king in his place

This is an idiom. AT: "became the next king" or "became the king of Judah" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-idiom]])

# translationWords

* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/pray]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/israel]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/king]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/sin]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/trespass]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/humble]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/chronicles]]