# Connecting Statement:

The writer, having shown that Christ's priesthood is better than the earthly priesthood, shows that the earthly priesthood was a pattern of heavenly things. Christ has a superior ministry, a superior covenant.

# Now

This does not mean "at this moment," but is used to draw attention to the important point that follows.

# we are saying

Even though the author uses the plural pronoun "we," he is most likely referring only to himself. AT: "I am saying" or "I am writing" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-pronouns]])

# sat down at the right hand of the throne of the Majesty

Here "right hand" refers to a place of honor. "The right handof the throne of the Majesty" refers to Christ, ruling as God, with God’s authority. See how you translated this in [Hebrews 1:3](../01/01.md). AT: "who rules as king where God is" (See: rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-idiom).

# the true tabernacle that the Lord, not a man, set up

People built the earthly tabernacle out of animal skins fastened to a wooden framework, and they set it up in the manner of a tent. Here "true tabernacle" means the heavenly tabernacle that God created.

# translationWords

* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/righthand]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/throne]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/majesty]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/heaven]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/servant]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/holyplace]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/true]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/tabernacle]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/lord]]