# For every high priest is appointed

This can be stated in active form. AT: "For God appoints every priest" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-activepassive]])

# Now

This does not mean "at this moment," but is used to draw attention to the important point that follows.

# according to the law

"as God requires in the law"

# a copy and shadow

These words have similar meanings to emphasize that the tabernacle was merely an image of the real tabernacle in heaven. AT: "a vague image" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-doublet]])

# shadow of the heavenly things

The author speaks of the earthly temple, which is a copy of the heavenly temple, as if it were a shadow. (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metaphor]])

# It is just as Moses was warned by God when he was

This can be stated in active form. AT: "It is just as God warned Moses when Moses was" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-activepassive]])

# was about to construct the tabernacle

Moses did not construct the tabernacle himself. He ordered the people to construct it. AT: "was about to command the people to construct the tabernacle" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-explicit]])

# See that

"Make sure that"

# to the pattern

"to the design"

# that was shown to you

This can be stated in active form. AT: "that I showed you" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-activepassive]])

# on the mountain

You can make explicit that "mountain" refers to Mount Sinai. AT: "on Mount Sinai" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-explicit]])

# translationWords

* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/highpriest]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/appoint]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/gift]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/sacrifice]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/christ]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/earth]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/priest]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/lawofmoses]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/serve]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/heaven]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/names/moses]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/tabernacle]]