# General Information:

This starts God's prophecy of judgment on Israel.

# The word of Yahweh came

This is an idiom that is used to introduce something that God told his prophets or his people. See how you translated this in [Ezekiel 3:16](../03/16.md). AT: "Yahweh spoke this message" or "Yahweh spoke these words" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-idiom]])

# You, son of man

"Son of a human being" or "Son of humanity." God calls Ezekiel this to emphasize that Ezekiel is only a human being. God is eternal and powerful, but humans are not. AT: "Mortal person" or "Human"

# son of man

"son of a human being" or "son of humanity." God calls Ezekiel this to emphasize that Ezekiel is only a human being. God is eternal and powerful, but humans are not. See how you translated this in [Ezekiel 2:1](../02/01.md). AT: "mortal person" or "human"

# the Lord Yahweh says this

Yahweh speaks of himself by name to remind Ezekiel and the people that what he is saying is important. AT: "I, the Lord Yahweh, say this" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-123person]])

# Lord Yahweh

See how you translated this in [Ezekiel 2:4](../02/04.md).

# to the land of Israel

The word "land" is a metonym for the people who live on the land. AT: "to the people of Israel" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metonymy]])

# An end!

"The end has come!"

# the four borders of the land

"the entire land" The "four borders" are to the north, east, south, and west.

# translationWords

* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/yahweh]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/sonofman]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/lordyahweh]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/israel]]