# General Information:

These are Yahweh's words about Israel.

# Every hand will falter and every knee will be weak as water

The hands and knees are synecdoches for the people themselves. AT: "Everyone will be so terrified that they will be unable to work and their knees will become weak so that they cannot stand" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-synecdoche]])

# falter

fail to do what it is supposed to do

# every knee will be weak as water

Another possible translation is, "every knee will flow with water," a euphemism for all the people losing control of their bladders because they are so frightened. (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-euphemism]])

# knee ... weak as water

Water cannot stand up, and the people's knees will be so weak that the people are unable to stand on their legs. (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-simile]])

# terror will cover them

Terror is spoken of as if it were clothing. AT: "everyone will see how terrified they are" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metaphor]])

# baldness on all of their heads

Shaving the head was a sign of sadness. AT: "all of them will shave their heads" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-explicit]])

# in the day of Yahweh's rage

"in the day when Yahweh acts on his anger" or "when Yahweh punishes them"

# the day

This can be a time period of more or less than one 24-hour day.

# their hunger will not be satisfied

This can be translated in active form. AT: "they will not be able to satisfy their hunger" or "they will still be hungry even after they eat all they have" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-activepassive]])

# their iniquity has become a stumbling block

Possible meanings are 1) "because having a lot of gold and silver has led them to sin" or 2) "because they are evil, they are committing sins that show how evil they are."