# General Information:

These are Yahweh's words to Ezekiel about Israel.

# Make a chain

Chains are used to hold slaves or prisoners. God says this to show the people that they will become slaves or prisoners.

# the land is filled with the judgment of blood

Possible meanings are 1) "everywhere in the country God is judging people because they violently killed others" or 2) "the courts everywhere in the country are murdering people." The word "blood" here represents murder and death. (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metonymy]])

# the city is full of violence

The city is spoken of as if it were a container, and violence is spoken of as an object that can be put in a container. The abstract noun "violence" can be translated as a verb. AT: "violence is everywhere in the city" or "many people in the city are doing violent things to others" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metaphor]] and [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-abstractnouns]])

# they will possess their houses

the wicked will take the Israelites' houses

# I will bring an end to the pride of the mighty

"I will cause the powerful people in Israel to stop being proud of themselves"

# their holy places will be defiled!

This can be translated in active form. AT: "enemies will defile the places where they worship" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-activepassive]])

# their holy places

the places in which they worshiped idols

# Fear will come

"The people will be afraid"

# They will seek peace

"They will try to make peace with their enemies"

# but there will be none

"but they will be unable to make peace with their enemies"

# translationWords

* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/judge]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/blood]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/proud]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/mighty]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/holy]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/fear]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/peace]]