# Connecting Statement:

Yahweh continues giving Jeremiah his message to the people of Judah.

# General Information:

The word "you" in these verses refers to the people of Judah.

# Behold!

The word "Behold" here alerts us to pay attention to the information that follows.

# Do you steal, kill, and commit adultery? Do you swear ... and walk after other gods whom you have not known?

These questions expect a positive answer to make the point that God knows the sins they are committing. This can be translated as a statement. AT: "You steal, kill, and commit adultery. You swear ... and walk after other gods whom you have not known." (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-rquestion]])

# swear deceitfully

"lie even in your oaths"

# walk after other gods

Here walking after is a metonym for following after with the intent to serve and obey. See how you translated this in [Jeremiah 7:6](./05.md). AT: "serve other gods" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metonymy]])

# Then do you come and stand ... so you can do all of these abominations?

This question expects a positive answer to make the point that God knows the hypocrisy of their words and actions. This can be translated as a statement. AT: "Then you come and stand ... so you can do all of these abominations." (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-rquestion]])

# house that is called by my name

This is a metonym for Yahweh's temple. It can be expressed in active form. AT: "house that belongs to me" or "temple where you worship me" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metonymy]] and [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-activepassive]])

# Is this house, which carries my name, a den of bandits in your eyes?

This question expects a positive answer to make the point that God knows what they think about Yahweh's temple. This can be translated as a statement. AT: "This house, which carries my name, is a den of bandits in your eyes!" or "You act as though you think this house, which is called by my name, should be a place where bandits can go to hide!" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-rquestion]])

# this house, which carries my name

Yahweh's temple is spoken of as if it was carrying the name of Yahweh. This has a similar meaning to "this house that is called by my name" in the previous verse. (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-idiom]])

# bandits

violent people who steal and destroy

# But behold, I have seen it

"But I certainly have seen what you are doing"

# this is Yahweh's declaration

Yahweh speaks of himself by name to express the certainty of what he is declaring. See how you translated this in [Jeremiah 1:8](../01/07.md). AT: "this is what Yahweh has declared" or "this is what I, Yahweh, have declared" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-123person]])

# translationWords

* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/trust]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/deceive]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/adultery]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/oath]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/incense]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/names/baal]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/know]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/house]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/name]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/proclaim]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/save]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/abomination]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/yahweh]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/declare]]