# Connecting Statement:

Yahweh continues to speak to Jeremiah about the people of Judah.

# General Information:

In these verses, "they" and "themselves" refer to the people of Judah.

# Are they truly provoking me?

This question expects a negative answer. It can be expressed as a statement. AT: "They are not really provoking me" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-rquestion]])

# this is Yahweh's declaration

Yahweh speaks of himself as if he were another person so that Jeremiah and the people of Judah will listen carefully to what he says. See how you translated this in [Jeremiah 1:8](../01/07.md). AT: "this is what Yahweh has declared" or "this is what Yahweh has said" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-pronouns]])

# is it not themselves whom they are provoking, so that shame is on them?

This question expects a positive answer. It can be expressed as a statement. AT: "they are provoking themselves, so that shame is on them!" or "they are troubling and bringing shame on themselves!" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-rquestion]] and [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-rpronouns]])

# shame is on them

The abstract noun "shame" can be translated using the verb "shamed." AT: "they are shamed" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-abstractnouns]])

# See

This word is used here to draw someone's attention to what is said next. AT: "Listen" or "Pay attention to what I am about to tell you"

# my anger and wrath will gush out onto this place

Yahweh speaks of his anger as if it were something that could be poured out. AT: "I will punish this place" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-idiom]])

# anger and wrath

These words mean basically the same thing and emphasize the intensity of Yahweh's anger. (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-doublet]])

# gush out

"pour out"

# It will burn and never be extinguished

Yahweh speaks of his anger as if it were a fire that could not be put out. AT: "No one will will be able to stop my anger" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-idiom]])

# never be extinguished

"never stop burning"