# Connecting Statement:

Yahweh continues giving Jeremiah his message to the people of Judah.

# General Information:

The words "you" and "your" in these verses refer to the people of Judah. "They" refers to the ancestors of the people of Judah.

# they did not listen or pay attention

These phrases mean about the same thing and are repeated for emphasis. (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-doublet]])

# by their own stubborn plans of their wicked hearts

"according to their own plans because they were wicked and stubborn"

# they went backwards, not forward

This is a metaphor. Possible meanings are 1) they refused to pay attention to Yahweh, instead of eagerly obeying him. AT: "they went away from me instead of drawing closer to me" or 2) they got worse and worse instead of improving. AT: "they got worse instead of better" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metaphor]])

# Ever since the day when your ancestors went out from the land of Egypt until this day

This is a generalization that means over this entire period of time, not every day during this period of time. AT: "From the time your ancestors went out from the land of Egypt until now" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-hyperbole]])

# I persisted in sending them

"I sent them again and again" or "I repeatedly sent them"

# they hardened their necks

This is an idiom that means they were stubborn. AT: "they became stubborn" or "they resisted me" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-idiom]])

# They were more wicked

"Each generation was more wicked"