# Connecting Statement:

Yahweh continues giving Jeremiah his message to the people of Judah.

# General Information:

The words "them" and "they" in these verses refer to the people of Judah.

# So proclaim all these words to them, but they will not listen to you. Proclaim these things to them, but they will not answer you.

These two sentences say the same thing, The second emphasizes the message of the first. AT: "Tell them my message, but they will not listen to you or answer you." (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-parallelism]])

# the voice of Yahweh its God

Here "the voice of Yahweh" represents what Yahweh has said. See how you translated this in [Jeremiah 3:25](../03/23.md). AT: "what Yahweh its God has said" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metonymy]])

# Truth is destroyed and cut off from their mouths

Yahweh speaks of truth as if it was something the people could destroy and stop saying. This can be stated in active form. AT: "The people destroy truth and cut it off from their mouths" or "The people tell only lies" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-activepassive]] and [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-idiom]])

# Truth is destroyed

The abstract noun "truth" can be translated using the adjective "truthful." AT: "What is truthful is destroyed" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-abstractnouns]])

# translationWords

* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/proclaim]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/nation]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/receive]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/discipline]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/true]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/cutoff]]