# Connecting Statement:

Yahweh continues giving Jeremiah his message to the people of Judah.

# General Information:

The word "your" in these verses refers to the people of Judah.

# Cut off your hair and shave yourself, and throw away your hair

This would be done as a sign of mourning. (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/translate-symaction]] and [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-rpronouns]])

# rejected and abandoned

These two words have similar meanings and are repeated for emphasis. (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-doublet]])

# sons of Judah

This refers to the people of Judah. AT: "people of Judah" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metonymy]])

# have done evil in my eye

The word "eye" represents seeing, and seeing represents thoughts or judgment. AT: "have done what I judge to be evil" or "have done what I consider to be evil" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metonymy]])

# this is Yahweh's declaration

Yahweh speaks of himself by name to express the certainty of what he is declaring. See how you translated this in [Jeremiah 1:8](../01/07.md). AT: "this is what Yahweh has declared" or "this is what I, Yahweh, have declared" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-123person]])

# their detestable things

Here "detestable things" refers to idols, which God hates. AT: "their disgusting idols" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metonymy]])

# house that is called by my name

This is a metonym for Yahweh's temple. It can be expressed in active form. See how you translated this in [Jeremiah 7:10](./08.md). AT: "house that belongs to me" or "temple where they worship me" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metonymy]] and [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-activepassive]])

# translationWords

* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/reject]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/generation]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/rage]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/son]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/detestable]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/houseofgod]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/defile]]