# Connecting Statement:

Yahweh continues to describe the evil things that the people of Judah had done.

# General Information:

The words "they" and "their" in these verses refer to the people of Judah.

# the high place of Topheth

This is the name of a place where the people of Israel sacrificed their children to a false god by burning them with fire. (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/translate-names]])

# the Valley of Ben Hinnom

This is the name of a valley south of the city of Jerusalem, where people sacrificed to false gods. (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/translate-names]])

# in fire

The implied information is that they were burned as sacrifices to a false god. AT: "as sacrifices" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-explicit]])

# nor did it enter my mind

Here the word "mind" refers to Yahweh's thoughts. AT: "nor did I ever think about it" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metonymy]])

# So see

The word "see" here adds emphasis to what follows. AT: "Indeed"

# days are coming ... when it

Future time is spoken of as if the "days are coming." AT: "in the future ... it" or "there will be a time ... when it" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metaphor]])

# this is Yahweh's declaration

Yahweh speaks of himself by name to express the certainty of what he is declaring. See how you translated this in [Jeremiah 1:8](../01/07.md). AT: "this is what Yahweh has declared" or "this is what I, Yahweh, have declared" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-123person]])

# it will no longer be called

This can be stated in active form. AT: "people will no longer call it" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-activepassive]])

# they will bury bodies

"they will bury dead people"

# no room left

"no place remaining"

# translationWords

* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/highplaces]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/fire]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/command]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/mind]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/biblicaltimeday]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/call]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/slaughter]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/bury]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/body]]