# Connecting Statement:

James continues to tell the scattered Jewish believers how to live by loving one another and reminds them not to favor rich people over poor brothers.

# My brothers

James considers his audience to be Jewish believers. AT: "My fellow believers" or "My brothers and sisters in Christ"

# hold to faith in our Lord Jesus Christ

Believing in Jesus Christ is spoken of as if it were an object that one could hold onto. (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metaphor]])

# our Lord Jesus Christ

The word "our" includes James and his fellow believers. (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-inclusive]])

# favoritism toward certain people

the desire to help some people more than others

# Suppose that someone

James starts to describe a situation where the believers might give more honor to a rich person than to a poor person. (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-hypo]])

# wearing gold rings and fine clothes

"dressed like a wealthy person"

# sit here in a good place

sit in this place of honor

# stand over there

move to a place with less honor

# Sit at my feet

move to a humble place

# are you not judging among yourselves? Have you not become judges with evil thoughts?

James is using rhetorical questions to teach and possibly scold his readers. AT: "you are making judgments among yourselves and becoming judges with evil thoughts." (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-rquestion]])

# translationWords

* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/brother]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/faith]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/lord]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/jesus]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/glory]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/favor]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/judge]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/evil]]