# Listen, my beloved brothers

James was exhorting his readers as family. "Pay attention, my dear fellow believers"

# did not God choose ... love him?

Here James uses a rhetorical question to teach his readers not to show favoritism. It can be made a statement. AT: "God has chosen ... love him" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-rquestion]])

# the poor

This refers to poor people in general. AT: "poor people" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-nominaladj]])

# be rich in faith

Having much faith is spoken of as being wealthy or rich. The object of faith may have to be specified. AT: "have strong faith in Christ" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metaphor]])

# heirs

The people to whom God has made promises are spoken of as if they were to inherit property and wealth from a family member. (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metaphor]])

# But you have

James is speaking to his whole audience. (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-you]])

# have dishonored the poor

"you have shamed poor people"

# Is it not the rich who oppress you?

Here James uses a rhetorical question to correct his readers. AT: "It is rich people who oppress you." (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-rquestion]] and [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-nominaladj]])

# the rich

This refers to rich people in general. AT: "rich people" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-nominaladj]])

# who oppress you

"who treat you badly"

# Are they not the ones ... to court?

Here James uses a rhetorical question to correct his readers. It can be made a statement. AT: "The rich people are the ones ... to court." (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-rquestion]])

# drag you to court

"forcibly take you to court to accuse you in front of judges" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-explicit]])

# Do they not insult ... have been called?

Here James uses a rhetorical question to correct and teach his readers. It can be made a statement. AT: "The rich people insult ... have been called." (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-rquestion]])

# the good name by which you have been called

This refers to Christ's name. AT: "the name of Christ who called you" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metonymy]])

# translationWords

* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/beloved]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/brother]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/god]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/world]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/faith]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/inherit]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/kingdom]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/promise]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/love]]