# General Information:

Since these are Jewish believers, they know the story of Abraham, about whom God had told them long ago in his word.

# Was not Abraham our father justified ... on the altar?

This rhetorical question is used to rebut the foolish man's arguments from [James 2:18](./18.md), who refuses to believe that faith and works go together. AT: "Abraham our father was certainly justified ... on the altar." (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-rquestion]])

# justified by works

James speaks of works as if they were objects that one can own. AT: "justified by doing good deeds" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metaphor]])

# father

Here "father" is used in the sense of "ancestor."

# You see

The word "you" is singular, referring to the hypothetical man. James is addressing his whole audience as if they were one person.

# You see

The word "see" is a metonym. AT: "You understand" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metonymy]])

# faith worked with his works, and that by works his faith was fully developed

James speaks as if "faith" and "works" are things that can work together and help each other. AT: "because Abraham believed God, he did what God commanded. And because Abraham did what God commanded, he believed God completely"

# The scripture was fulfilled

This can be stated in active form. AT: "This fulfilled the scripture" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-activepassive]])

# it was counted to him as righteousness

"God regarded his faith as righteousness." Abraham's faith and righteousness were treated as if they were able to be counted as having value. (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metaphor]])

# You see

James again addresses his audience directly by using the plural form of "you."

# it is by works that a man is justified, and not only by faith

"actions and faith are what justify a person, and not only faith." James speaks of works as if they were objects to obtain. (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-activepassive]] and [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metaphor]])

# translationWords

* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/names/abraham]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/father]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/justify]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/works]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/sacrifice]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/names/isaac]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/altar]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/wordofgod]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/righteous]]