# Do you not know what ... lands?

Sennacherib uses a rhetorical question to cause the people of Jerusalem to think about their situation. It can be translated as a statement. AT: "You know very well what ... lands!" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-rquestion]])

# Were the gods ... power?

Sennacherib uses a rhetorical question to cause the people of Jerusalem to think about their situation. It can be translated as a statement. AT: "There was no god ... power!" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-rquestion]])

# Among all the gods ... was there any god who ... hand?

Sennacherib uses a rhetorical question to cause the people of Jerusalem to think about their situation. It can be translated as a statement. AT: "There was no god among all the gods ... who ... hand!" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-rquestion]])

# out of my hand

Here "hand" represents power or control. AT: "from my power" or "from me" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metonymy]])

# Why should your God be able ... power?

Sennacherib uses a rhetorical question to cause the people of Jerusalem to think about their situation. It can be translated as a statement. AT: "There is no reason your God should be able ... power!" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-rquestion]])

# Now

Here the word "now" is used to draw attention to the important point that follows.

# How much less will your God rescue you from my hand?

Sennacherib uses a rhetorical question to cause the people of Jerusalem to think about their situation. It can be translated as a statement. AT: "Your God will certainly not be able to rescue you from my hand!" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-rquestion]])

# translationWords

* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/peoplegroup]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/falsegod]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/power]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/deceive]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/believe]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/nation]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/kingdom]]