# Seeing their faith, Jesus said

It is understood that they believe Jesus can heal the paralyzed man. This can be stated. AT: "When Jesus perceived that they believed that he could heal the man, he said to him" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-ellipsis]])

# Man

This is a general word that people used when speaking to a man whose name they did not know. It was not rude, but it also did not show special respect. Some languages might use a word like "friend" or "sir."

# your sins are forgiven you

This can be stated in active form. AT: "you are forgiven" or "I forgive your sins" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-activepassive]])

# question this

"discuss this" or "reason about this." What they questioned can be stated. AT: "discuss whether or not Jesus had authority to forgive sins" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-ellipsis]])

# Who is this who speaks blasphemies?

This question shows how shocked and angry they were at what Jesus said. This can be written as a statement. AT: "This man is blaspheming God!" or "He blasphemes God by saying that!" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-rquestion]])

# Who can forgive sins but God alone?

The implied information is that if a person claims to forgive sins he says he is God. This can be written as a clear statement. AT: "No one can forgive sins but God alone!" or "God is the only one who can forgive sins!" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-rquestion]] and [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-explicit]])

# translationWords

* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/faith]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/sin]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/forgive]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/scribe]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/pharisee]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/blasphemy]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/god]]