# Connecting Statement:

At the meal, Jesus speaks with the Pharisees and scribes.

# in his house

"in Levi's house"

# reclining at the table

The Greek style of eating at a feast was to lie on a couch and prop oneself up with the left arm on some pillows. AT: "eating together" or "eating at the table" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-explicit]])

# to his disciples

"to Jesus' disciples"

# Why do you eat ... sinful people?

The Pharisees and scribes ask this question to express their disapproval that Jesus' disciples are eating with sinners. AT: "You should not eat with sinners!" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-rquestion]])

# you eat and drink with ... sinful people

The Pharisees and scribes believed that religious people should separate themselves from people they consider to be sinners. The word "you" is plural. (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-explicit]])

# People who are well ... sick

Jesus uses this proverb to begin to tell them that he calls sinners to repentance the way a physician calls sick people to be healed. (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/writing-proverbs]])

# physician

doctor

# only those who are sick

You may need to supply the words that have been omitted. AT: "only those who are sick need a physician" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-ellipsis]])

# righteous people

Some people think they are righteous. Jesus refers to them by the way they think about themselves even though he knows that they are not righteous. AT: "people who think they are righteous" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-irony]])

# translationWords

* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/banquet]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/pharisee]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/scribe]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/disciple]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/sin]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/righteous]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/repent]]