# General Information:

This continues what the Israelite must say to Yahweh when he gives his tithe to the poor.

# I have not eaten any of it in my mourning

"I have not eaten any of the tithe while I was mourning"

# when I was impure

Here "impure" means the person is unclean according to the Law. God does not allow an unclean person to touch the tithe he is giving to God. The full meaning of this statement can be made explicit. AT: "when I was unclean according to the Law" or "when the law says I cannot touch it" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-explicit]])

# I have listened to the voice of Yahweh my God; I have obeyed everything you have commanded me to do

Here "voice of Yahweh" is a metonym for what Yahweh says. Both statements share similar meanings. They emphasize that the person has obeyed all of God's commands. (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metonymy]] and [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-parallelism]])

# from the holy place where you live, from heaven

These two phrases mean the same thing. AT: "from heaven, your holy dwelling place" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-doublet]])

# a land flowing with milk and honey

This is an idiom. See how you translated this in [Deuteronomy 6:3](../06/03.md). AT: "a land where plenty of milk and honey flow" or "a land that is excellent for cattle and farming"

# translationWords

* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/mourn]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/honor]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/death]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/voice]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/obey]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/command]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/holyplace]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/life]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/heaven]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/bless]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/oath]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/father]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/honey]]