# On that day

"At that time"

# the host of the heaven

A host is an army. Here "the host of the heaven" refers to the many powerful spirits in the heavens. It can be stated clearly that they are evil. AT: "the powerful beings" or "the evil spiritual beings" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-explicit]])

# in the heavens

"in the sky"

# They will be gathered together, prisoners in a pit, and will be shut up in a prison

Here "pit" refers to a dark room or hole in a prison. This can be stated in active form. AT: "Yahweh will gather them together as his prisoners and lock them in the dungeon of a prison" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-activepassive]])

# they will be punished

This can be stated in active form. AT: "Yahweh will punish them" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-activepassive]])

# Then the moon will be ashamed, and the sun disgraced

The sun and the moon are described as a person who is ashamed of being in front of someone with greater power. In the presence of Yahweh, the light of the moon and sun will seem less bright. (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-personification]])

# translationWords

* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/yahweh]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/punish]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/king]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/pit]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/prison]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/shame]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/yahwehofhosts]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/reign]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/zion]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/jerusalem]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/elder]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/glory]]