# Connecting Statement:

Jesus begins to talk to the crowds about John the Baptist.

# What did you go out in the desert to see—a reed ... wind?

Jesus uses a question to cause the people to think about what kind of person John the Baptist is. AT: "Surely you did not go out to the desert to see a reed ... wind!" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-rquestion]])

# a reed being shaken by the wind

Possible meanings are 1) Jesus mean the literal plants by the Jordan River or 2) Jesus is using a metaphor to mean a kind of person. AT: "a man who easily changes his mind and is like a reed blowing back and forth in the wind" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metaphor]])

# being shaken by the wind

This can be translated in active form. AT: "swaying in the wind" or "blowing in the wind" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-activepassive]])

# But what did you go out to see—a man ... clothing?

Jesus uses a question to cause the people to think about what kind of person John the Baptist is. AT: And, surely you did not go out to the desert to see a man ... clothing!" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-rquestion]])

# dressed in soft clothing

"wearing expensive clothing." Rich people wore this kind of clothing.

# Really

This word adds emphasis to what follows. AT: "Indeed"

# kings' houses

"kings' palaces"

# translationWords

* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/jesus]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/names/johnthebaptist]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/desert]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/reed]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/king]]