# Connecting Statement:

Jesus continues to talk to the crowds about John the Baptist.

# General Information:

In verse 10, Jesus quotes the prophet Malachi to show that the life and ministry of John the Baptist fulfilled prophecy.

# But what did you go out to see—a prophet?

Jesus uses a question to make the people think about what kind of man John the Baptist is. AT: "But surely you went out to the desert to see a prophet!" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-rquestion]])

# Yes, I say to you,

"I say to you yes,"

# much more than a prophet

This can be translated as a complete sentence. AT: "he is not an ordinary prophet" or "he is more important than a normal prophet" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-ellipsis]])

# This is he of whom it was written

This can be stated in active form. AT: "This is what the prophet Malachi wrote long ago about John the Baptist" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-activepassive]])

# I am sending my messenger

The pronouns "I" and "my" refer to God. Malachi is quoting what God said.

# before your face

Here "your" is singular, because God was speaking to the Messiah in the quotation. Also, "face" refers to the whole person. AT: "in front of you" or "to go ahead of you" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-you]] and [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-synecdoche]])

# prepare your way before you

This is a metaphor that means the messenger will prepare the people to receive the Messiah's message. (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metaphor]])

# translationWords

* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/prophet]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/written]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/messenger]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/face]]