# Connecting Statement:

Jesus continues to talk to the crowds about John the Baptist.

# I say to you truly

"I tell you the truth." This phrase adds emphasis to what Jesus says next.

# among those born of women

This is a way of referring to all humans. AT: "out of all people who have ever lived" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-idiom]])

# no one is greater than John the Baptist

This can be stated in positive form. AT: "John the Baptist is the greatest" or "John the Baptist is the most important"

# the least important person in the kingdom of heaven

Here "kingdom of heaven" refers to God's rule as king. The phrase "kingdom of heaven" is used only in Matthew. If possible, try to keep "heaven" in your translation. AT: "the least important person under the rule of our God in heaven" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metonymy]])

# is greater than he is

"is more important than John is"

# From the days of John the Baptist

"From the time John began preaching his message." The word "days" probably refers here to a period of months or even years.

# the kingdom of heaven suffers violence, and men of violence take it by force

There are various possible interpretations of this verse. The ULB and UDB assume that it means that some people want to use God's kingdom for their own selfish purposes, and that they are willing to use force against other people to accomplish this. Other versions assume a positive interpretation, that the call to enter the kingdom of God has become so urgent, that people must act in an extreme manner in order to answer that call and to resist the temptation to sin further. A third interpretation is that violent people are harming God's people and trying to stop God from ruling.

# translationWords

* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/amen]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/johnthebaptist]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/suffer]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/kingdomofgod]]