# Connecting Statement:

Jesus continues to talk to the crowds about John the Baptist.

# To what should I compare this generation?

Jesus uses a question to introduce a comparison between the people of that day and what children might say in the marketplace. AT: "This is what this generation is like" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-rquestion]])

# this generation

"the people living now" or "these people" or "you people of this generation"

# It is like children playing in the marketplace ... and you did not weep

Jesus uses a parable to describe the people who were alive at that time. He compares them to a group of children who are trying to get the other children to play with them. But, no matter way they do, the other children will not join them. Jesus means that it does not matter if God sends someone like John the Baptist, who lives in the desert and fasts, or someone like Jesus, who celebrates with sinners and does not fast. The people, most specifically the Pharisees and religious leaders, still remain stubborn and refuse to accept God's truth. (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-parables]] and [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-simile]])

# marketplace

a large, open-air area where people buy and sell items

# We played a flute for you

"We" refers to the children sitting in the marketplace. Here "you" is plural and refers to the other group of children. (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-you]])

# and you did not dance

"but you did not dance to the happy music"

# We mourned

This means they sang sad songs like women did at funerals. (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-explicit]])

# and you did not weep

"but you did not cry with us"