# Connecting Statement:

Jesus concludes talking to the crowds about John the Baptist.

# not eating bread or drinking wine

Here "bread" refers to food. It does not mean that John never ate food. It means he fasted often, and when he ate, he did not eat good, expensive food. AT: "frequently fasting and not drinking alcohol" or "not eating fancy food and not drinking wine" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-synecdoche]] and [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-explicit]])

# they say, 'He has a demon.'

This can be translated as an indirect quote. AT: "they say that he has a demon" or "they accuse him of having a demon" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-quotations]])

# they say

All occurrences of "they" refer to the people of that generation, and most specifically to the Pharisees and religious leaders.

# The Son of Man came

Jesus is referring to himself. AT: "I, the Son of Man, came" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-123person]])

# came eating and drinking

This is the opposite of John's behavior. This means more than just consuming the normal amount of food and drink. It means Jesus celebrated and enjoyed good food and drink like other people did.

# they say, 'Look, he is a gluttonous man and a drunkard ... sinners!'

This can be translated as an indirect quote. AT: "they say that he is a gluttonous man and a drunkard ... sinners." or "they accuse him of eating and drinking too much and of being ... sinners." (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-quotations]])

# they say, 'Look, he is a gluttonous man and a drunkard ... sinners!'

If you translated "The Son of Man" as "I, the Son of man," you can state this as an indirect statement and use the first person. AT: "they say that I am a gluttonous man and a drunkard ... sinners." (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-quotations]] and [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-123person]])

# he is a gluttonous man

"he is a greedy eater" or "he continually eats too much food"

# a drunkard

"a drunk" or "he continually drinks too much alcohol"

# But wisdom is justified by her deeds

This is a proverb that Jesus applies to this situation, because the people who rejected both him and John were not being wise. Jesus and John the Baptist are the wise ones, and the results of their deeds prove it. (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/writing-proverbs]])

# wisdom is justified by her deeds

Here "wisdom" is described as a woman who is proven to be right by what she does. Jesus means that the results of a wise person's actions prove that he is truly wise. This can be stated in active form. AT: "the results of a wise person's deeds prove that he is wise" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-personification]] and [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-activepassive]])

# translationWords

* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/names/johnthebaptist]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/bread]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/wine]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/demon]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/sonofman]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/drunk]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/taxcollector]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/sin]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/wise]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/justify]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/works]]