# General Information:

Jesus begins to rebuke the people of the cities where he previously did miracles.

# rebuke the cities

Here "the cities" refers to the people who live there. AT: "rebuke the people of the cities" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metonymy]])

# cities

"towns"

# in which most of his mighty deeds were done

This can be translated in active form. AT: "in which he did most of his mighty deeds" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-activepassive]])

# mighty deeds

"mighty works" or "works of power" or "miracles"

# Woe to you, Chorazin! Woe to you, Bethsaida!

Jesus speaks as if the people of the cities of Chorazin and Bethsaida were there listening to him, but they were not. (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-apostrophe]])

# Woe to you

"How terrible it will be for you!" Here "you" is singular and refers to the city. If it is more natural to refer to the people instead of a city, you could translate with a plural "you." (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-you]])

# Chorazin ... Bethsaida ... Tyre ... Sidon

The names of these cities are used as metonyms for the people living in these cities. (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metonymy]] and [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/translate-names]])

# If the mighty deeds ... in sackcloth and ashes

Jesus is describing a hypothetical situation that could have happened in the past, but it did not. (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-hypo]])

# If the mighty deeds had been done in Tyre and Sidon which were done in you

This can be translated with active forms. AT: "If I had done the mighty deeds among the people of Tyre and Sidon that I have done among you" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-activepassive]])

# which were done in you ... than for you

Here the "you" is plural and refers to Chorazin and Bethsaida. If it is more natural for your language, you could use a dual "you" to refer to the two cities, or a plural "you" to refer to the people of the cities. (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-you]])

# they would have repented long

The pronoun "they" refers to the people of Tyre and Sidon.

# repented

"shown they were sorry for their sins"

# it will be more tolerable for Tyre and Sidon at the day of judgment than for you

Here "Tyre and Sidon" refers to the people who live there. AT: "God will show more mercy to the people of Tyre and Sidon in the day of judgment than to you" or "God will punish you more severely at the day of judgment than the people of Tyre and Sidon" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metonymy]])

# than for you

The implied information can be made explicit. AT "than for you, because you did not repent and believe in me, even though you saw me do miracles" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-explicit]])