# Woe to you, Chorazin! Woe to you, Bethsaida!

Jesus speaks as if the people of the cities of Chorazin and Bethsaida were there listening to him, but they were not. (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-apostrophe]])

# Woe to you

"How terrible it will be for you." Here "you" is singular and refers to the city. If it is more natural to refer to the people instead of a city, you could translate with a plural "you." (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-you]])

# Chorazin ... Bethsaida ... Tyre ... Sidon

The names of these cities are used as metonyms for the people living in these cities. (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metonymy]] and [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/translate-names]])

# If the mighty deeds ... in sackcloth and ashes

Jesus is describing a hypothetical situation that could have happened in the past, but it did not. (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-hypo]])

# If the mighty deeds had been done in Tyre and Sidon which were done in you

This can be translated with active forms. AT: "If I had done the mighty deeds among the people of Tyre and Sidon that I have done among you" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-activepassive]])

# which were done in you ... than for you

Here the "you" is plural and refers to Chorazin and Bethsaida. If it is more natural for your language, you could use a dual "you" to refer to the two cities, or a plural "you" to refer to the people of the cities. (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-you]])

# they would have repented long ago

The pronoun "they" refers to the people of Tyre and Sidon.

# would have repented

"would have shown they were sorry for their sins"

