# Connecting Statement:

Jesus continues to rebuke the people of the cities where he previously did miracles.

# You, Capernaum

Jesus now speaks to the people in the city of Capernaum as if they were listening to him, but they were not. The pronoun "you" is singular and refers to Capernaum throughout these two verses. (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-apostrophe]])

# You

All occurrences of "you" are singular. If it is more natural to refer to the people of the city, you could translate with a plural "you." (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-you]])

# Capernaum ... Sodom

The names of these cities refer to the people living in Capernaum and in Sodom. (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metonymy]])

# do you think you will be exalted to heaven?

"do you think you will be raised up to heaven?" Jesus uses a rhetorical question to rebuke the people of Capernaum for their pride. It can be stated in active form: AT: "you cannot raise yourself up to heaven!" or "the praise of other people will not raise you up to heaven!" or "God will not bring you up to heaven like you think he will!" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-rquestion]] and [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-activepassive]])

# you will be brought down to Hades

This can be stated in active form. AT: "God will send you down to Hades" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-activepassive]])

# For if in Sodom ... it would still have remained until today

Jesus is describing a hypothetical situation that could have happened in the past, but it did not. (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-hypo]])

# if in Sodom there had been done the mighty deeds that were done in

This can be stated in active form. AT: "if I had done the mighty deeds among the people of Sodom that I have done among you" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-activepassive]])

# mighty deeds

"mighty works" or "works of power" or "miracles"

# it would still have remained

The pronoun "it" refers to the city of Sodom.

# I say to you

This phrase adds emphasis to what Jesus says next.

# it shall be easier for the land of Sodom in the day of judgment than for you

Here "land of Sodom" refer to the people who lived there. AT: "God will show more mercy to the people of Sodom in the day of judgment than to you" or "God will punish you more severely in the day of judgment than the people of Sodom" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metonymy]])

# than for you

The implicit information can be made explicit. AT: "than for you, because you did not repent and believe in me, even though you saw me do miracles" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-explicit]])

# translationWords

* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/capernaum]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/exalt]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/heaven]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/hades]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/sodom]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/mighty]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/works]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/judgmentday]]