# General Information:

In verses 25 and 26, Jesus prays to his heavenly Father while still in the presence of the crowd. In verse 27, he begins to address the people again.

# Father

This is an important title for God. (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/guidelines-sonofgodprinciples]])

# Lord of heaven and earth

"Lord who rules over heaven and earth." The phrase "heaven and earth" is a merism that refers to all people and things in the universe. AT: "Lord who rules over the whole universe" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-merism]])

# you concealed these things ... and revealed them

It is not clear what is meant by "these things." If your language needs to specify what is meant, an alternative translation might be best. AT: "you concealed these truths ... and revealed them"

# you concealed these things from

"you hid these things from" or "you have not made these things known to." This verb is the opposite of "revealed."

# from the wise and understanding

These nominal adjectives can be translated as adjectives. AT: "from people who are wise and understanding" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-nominaladj]])

# the wise and understanding

Jesus is using irony. He does not think these people are really wise. AT: "people who think they are wise and understanding" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-irony]])

# revealed them

"made them known." The pronoun "them" refers to "these things" earlier in this verse.

# to those who are untaught

"to those who are ignorant"

# like little children

Jesus compares an ignorant person to a little child. Jesus is emphasizing that many of those who believe him are not well educated or think of themselves as wise. (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-simile]])

# for so it was well-pleasing in your sight

The phrase "in your sight" is a metonym that stands for how a person considers something. AT: "for you considered it good to do this" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metonymy]])

# All things have been entrusted to me from my Father

This can be stated in active form. AT: "My Father has entrusted all things to me" or "My Father has given everything over to me" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-activepassive]])

# All things

Possible meanings are 1) God the Father has revealed everything about himself and his kingdom to Jesus or 2) God has given all authority to Jesus.

# my Father

This is an important title for God that describes the relationship between God and Jesus. (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/guidelines-sonofgodprinciples]])

# no one knows the Son except the Father

"only the Father knows the Son"

# no one knows

Both times Jesus uses this phrase, the word "knows" means more than just knowing the person. It means knowing the person intimately because they have a special relationship.

# the Son

Jesus was referring to himself in the third person. (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-123person]])

# Son

This is an important title for Jesus, the Son of God. (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/guidelines-sonofgodprinciples]])

# no one knows the Father except the Son

"only the Son knows the Father"

# translationWords

* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/jesus]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/praise]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/godthefather]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/lordgod]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/heaven]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/earth]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/wise]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/understand]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/reveal]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/sonofgod]]