# Connecting Statement:

Jesus finishes speaking to the crowd.

# all you

All occurrences of "you" are plural. (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-you]])

# who labor and are heavy burdened

Jesus speaks of people being discouraged in their attempts to obey all the laws as if those laws were heavy burdens and the people were laboring to carry them. AT: "who are discouraged from trying so hard" or "Who are discouraged from trying so hard to obey the laws perfectly" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metaphor]])

# I will give you rest

"I will allow you to rest from your labor and burden"

# Take my yoke on you

Jesus continues the metaphor. Jesus is inviting the people to become his disciples and follow him. (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metaphor]])

# I am meek and lowly in heart

Here "meek" and "lowly in heart" mean basically the same thing. Jesus combines them to emphasize that he will be much kinder than the religious leaders. AT: "I am gentle and humble" or "I am very gentle" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-doublet]])

# lowly in heart

"Heart" here is a metonym for "thoughts and intentions." AT: "humble" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metonymy]]).

# you will find rest for your souls

Here "soul" refers to the entire person. AT: "you will find rest for yourselves" or "you will be able to rest" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-synecdoche]])

# For my yoke is easy and my burden is light

Both of these phrases mean the same thing. Jesus is emphasizing that it is easier to obey him than it is the Jewish law. AT: "For what I place on you, you will be able to carry because it is light" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-parallelism]])

# my burden is light

The word "light" here is the opposite of heavy, not the opposite of dark.

# translationWords

* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/labor]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/burden]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/rest]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/yoke]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/meek]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/soul]]