# But if someone ... the other person's conscience

Some translations put these words in parentheses because 1) the form of "you" here is singular, but Paul uses the plural form immediately before and after and 2) the words "For why should my freedom be judged by another's conscience?" seem to build on "eat whatever is set before you without asking questions of conscience" ([1 Corinthians 10:27](./25.md)) rather than "the other person's conscience." (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-you]])

# says to you ... do not eat ... informed you ... your own conscience

Paul is speaking to the Corinthians as if they were one person, so the words "you" and "your" and the command "do not eat" here are singular. (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-you]])

# For why ... conscience? If I partake ... gave thanks?

Possible meanings are 1) the word "for" refers back to [1 Corinthians 10:27](./25.md), "I am not to ask questions of conscience, so why ... conscience? If I partake ... gave thanks?" or 2) Paul is quoting what some Corinthians were thinking, "As some of you might be thinking, 'For why ... conscience? If I ... thanks?'"

# why should my freedom be judged by another's conscience?

The speaker wants the hearer to answer the question in his mind. AT: "You should know without me telling you that no one should be able to say I am doing wrong just because that person has ideas about right and wrong that are different from mine. (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-rquestion]])

# If I partake of the meal with gratitude, why am I being insulted for that for which I gave thanks?

The speaker wants the hearer to answer the question in his mind. AT: "I partake of the meal with gratitude, so no one should insult me for that for which I gave thanks." (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-rquestion]])

# If I partake

If Paul is not quoting what some Corinthians might be thinking, the "I" represents those who eat meat with thankfulness. "If a person partakes" or "When a person eats"

# with gratitude

"and thank God for it" or "and thank the person who gave it to me for it"