# But if someone says to you ... do not eat ... who informed you ... and not yours

Some translations put these words in parentheses because 1) the forms of "you" and "yours" and "eat" here are singular, but Paul uses the plural form immediately before and after, and 2) the words "For why should my freedom be judged by another's conscience?" seem to build on "eat whatever is set before you without asking questions of conscience" ([1 Corinthians 10:27](./25.md)) rather than "the other person's conscience." (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-you]])

# says to you ... do not eat ... informed you ... and not yours

Paul is speaking to the Corinthians as if they were one person, so the words "you" and "your" and the command "do not eat" here are singular. (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-you]])

# For why ... conscience? If I partake ... gave thanks?

Possible meanings are 1) the word "for" refers back to [1 Corinthians 10:27](./25.md), "I am not to ask questions of conscience, so why ... conscience? If I partake ... gave thanks?" or 2) Paul is quoting what some Corinthians were thinking, "As some of you might be thinking, 'For why ... conscience? If I ... thanks?'"

# why should my freedom be judged by another's conscience?

The speaker wants the hearer to answer the question in his mind. AT: "You should know without me telling you that no one should be able to say I am doing wrong just because that person has ideas about right and wrong that are different from mine. (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-rquestion]])

