# Ahikam son of Shaphan, Abdon son of Micah, Shaphan ... Asaiah

These are the names of men. (See:[[rc://en/ta/man/translate/translate-names]])

# ask Yahweh's will for me

The word "will" can be translated as a verb. Also, it is made clear in [2 Chronicles 34:22](./22.md) that the king means for the men to go to the prophetess of Yahweh to determine Yahweh's will. AT: "Ask Yahweh what he wants me to do" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-abstractnouns]])

# because of the words

"concerning the words"

# the words of the book that has been found

Here "words" represents the laws. This can be stated in active form. AT: "the laws in the book that Hilkiah has found" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metonymy]] and [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-activepassive]])

# For it is great, the anger of Yahweh that has been poured out on us. It is great

Emotions such as anger are often spoken of in Scripture as if they were liquids. AT: "For Yahweh's anger towards us is great, like water that could totally wash us away" or "For great is Yahweh's anger with which he has punished us" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metaphor]])

# all that was written in it

This can be stated in active form. AT: "all that is written in it" or "all that is in this book" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-activepassive]])

# translationWords

* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/kingdomofisrael]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/kingdomofjudah]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/angry]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/obey]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/written]]