# the man who sent you to me

Here "the man" refers to King Josiah.

# See

The word is used here as an idiom to draw the listener's attention to what is said next. AT: "Listen" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-idiom]])

# I am about to bring disaster on this place and on its inhabitants

Yahweh causing terrible things to happen is spoken of as if disaster were an object that he could bring to a place. AT: "I will soon cause terrible things to happen to this place and to those who live there" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metaphor]])

# on this place

"to Jerusalem" This refers to the city of Jerusalem which represents the whole land of Judah. AT: "on Judah" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-synecdoche]])

# all the curses that have been written

This can be stated in active form. AT: "all the curses written" or "all the curses" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-activepassive]])

# they have provoked me to anger

"they have made me angry"

# therefore, my anger will be poured out on this place, and it will not be extinguished

Emotions such as anger are often spoken of in Scripture as if they were liquids. AT: "therefore, my anger against this place is like a fire, and nothing will stop it" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metaphor]])

# my anger will be poured out

This can be stated in active form. AT: "I will pour out my anger" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-activepassive]])

# on this place

Here "this place" refers to the people who live there. AT: "on these people" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metonymy]])