# About the words that you heard

"About the message that you heard"

# because your heart was tender

Here "heart" represents a person's inner being. Feeling sorry is spoken of as if the heart were tender. AT: "because you felt sorry" or "because you repented" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metonymy]] and [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metaphor]])

# torn your clothes

This is a symbolic action that indicates intense grief or sadness. (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/translate-symaction]])

# this is Yahweh's declaration

Yahweh speaks of himself by name to express the certainty of what he is declaring. AT: "this is what Yahweh has declared" or "this is what I, Yahweh, have declared" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-123person]])

# see, I will gather you to your ancestors. You will be gathered to your grave in peace

Both statements mean basically the same thing. They are polite ways of saying he will die. AT: "so I will allow you to die and be buried peacefully" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-parallelism]] and [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-euphemism]])

# You will be gathered to your grave

This can be stated in active form. AT: "I will gather you to your grave" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-activepassive]])

# your eyes will not see

Here "eyes" represents the whole person. Also, the phrase "will not see" represents not experiencing something. AT: "you will not experience" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-synecdoche]] and [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metonymy]])

# the disaster I will bring on this place

Yahweh causing terrible things to happen is spoken of as if disaster were an object that Yahweh would bring to a place. AT: "the terrible things I will cause to happen to this place" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metaphor]])

# translationWords

* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/word]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/heart]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/humble]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/declare]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/peace]]