# stood in his place

This refers to the place where the king stood at the temple. AT: "stood where he was supposed to stand at the entrance to the temple" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-explicit]])

# walk after Yahweh

The way a person lives is spoken of as if that person were walking on a path, and "to walk after" someone is a metonym for doing what that other person does or wants others to do. AT: "live obeying Yahweh" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metaphor]] and [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metonymy]])

# his commandments, his regulations, and his statutes

These words all share similar meanings. Together they emphasize everything that Yahweh had commanded in the law. (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-doublet]])

# with all his heart and all his soul

The idiom "with all his heart" means "completely" and "with all his soul" means "with all his being." These two phrases have similar meanings. AT: "with all his being" or "with all his energy" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-idiom]] and [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-doublet]])

# that were written in this book

This can be translated in active form. AT: "that this book contained" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-activepassive]])

# all who were found in Jerusalem and Benjamin

This can be stated in active form. AT: "all who lived in Jerusalem and Benjamin" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-activepassive]])

# stand by the covenant

This is an idiom. AT: "accept the terms of the covenant" or "promise to obey the covenant" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-idiom]])

# translationWords

* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/walk]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/command]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/decree]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/statute]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/names/benjamin]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/obey]]