# General Information:

Zophar continues speaking to Job.

# Though his height reaches up to the heavens

"Though the wicked person's height reaches up to the heavens." The abstract noun "height" can be expressed with the adjective "tall." AT: "Though he is as tall as the heavens" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-abstractnouns]])

# Though his height reaches up to the heavens

The wicked man's height represents either his reputation or his pride. Also, here "reaches up to the heavens" represents being very great. AT: "Though his reputation is great" or "Though his pride is great" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metaphor]])

# his head reaches to the clouds

"and though his head is as high as the clouds." This also represents his reputation or pride being great. This means the same as the previous phrase. (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metaphor]] and [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-parallelism]])

# will perish permanently like his own feces

Feces mixes in with the ground and disappears. The reference to feces may also imply that the wicked person is worthless. AT: "will perish permanently like his feces, which completely disappears in the ground" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-simile]])

# will perish permanently like his own feces

If people are embarrassed about the word feces, translators may refer to something else that disappears completely. AT: "will disappear permanently like dust that the wind blows away" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-simile]])