# General Information:

Zophar continues speaking to Job.

# He swallows down riches ... cast them out of his stomach

Zophar speaks of gaining and losing wealth as if it were food that a person eats and vomits. AT: "The wicked person becomes very wealthy, but he loses his wealth like a person who vomits up his food. God causes him to lose it all" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metaphor]])

# He swallows down riches

Possible meanings are that "swallows down riches" represents 1) accumulating riches and storing them selfishly. AT: "The wicked man gains much wealth and keeps it all for himself" or 2) accumulating riches in wicked ways. AT: "The wicked man steals many riches" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metaphor]])

# God will cast them out of his stomach

Here "cast them out of his stomach" is a metonym for causing the man to vomit them. This is a metaphor for causing the man to lose his riches. (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metonymy]] and [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metaphor]])

# cast

"throw"

# He will suck the poison of asps

Here "suck the poison of asps" represents doing evil things. Both are very dangerous. AT: "Doing evil things is like sucking the poison of asps" or "He will do evil things and endanger his life like a person who sucks the poison of asps" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metaphor]])

# asps

poisonous snakes

# the viper's tongue will kill him

The viper is a poisonous snake. Its tongue represents its poisonous bite. AT: "the viper's poisonous bite will kill him" or "the viper will bite him and he will die" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metonymy]])

# the viper's tongue will kill him

The viper represents the man's wickedness. AT: "his wickedness will kill him like a viper's bite" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metaphor]])