# General Information:

Zophar continues speaking to Job.

# to fill his stomach

Here "fill his stomach" is a metonym meaning eat a lot. (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metonymy]])

# God will throw the fierceness of his wrath on him

The "fierceness of his wrath" represents God's anger and punishment. Throwing the punishment on him represents punishing him severely. AT: "God will be angry and throw down his punishment on him" or "God will be angry and punish him severely" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metaphor]])

# God will rain it down on him

"God will cause it to rain down on him." Here "rain it down on him" represents causing much punishment to happen to the man. AT: "God will punish him severely" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metaphor]])

# will flee from the iron weapon

The iron weapon represents the person carrying it. AT: "will flee from the person carrying an iron weapon" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metonymy]])

# a bow of bronze will shoot him

The bow represents the person who shoots an arrow with it. AT: "someone with a bronze bow will shoot him" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metonymy]])

# liver

This is a large and important part of the body. If someone shoots through it with an arrow, the person who is shot will die.

# terrors come on him

This represents his suddenly becoming very afraid. AT: "he is terrified" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metaphor]])

# translationWords

* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/wrath]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/bowweapon]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/bronze]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/pierce]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/terror]]