# Connecting Statement:

Another angel comes down from heaven and speaks. This is a different angel than the one in the previous chapter, who spoke about the prostitute and the beast.

# General Information:

The pronouns "she" and "her" refer to the city of Babylon, which is spoken of as if it were a prostitute. (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-personification]])

# Fallen, fallen is Babylon the great

The angel speaks of Babylon having been destroyed as if it had fallen. See how you translated this in [Revelation 14:8](../14/08.md). (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metaphor]])

# detestable bird

"disgusting bird" or "repulsive bird"

# all the nations

The nations is a metonym for the people of those nations. AT: "the people of all the nations" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metonymy]])

# have drunk the wine of her immoral passion

This is a symbol for participating in her sexually immoral passion. AT: "have become sexually immoral like her" or "have become drunk like her in sexual sin" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/writing-symlanguage]])

# her immoral passion

Babylon is spoken of as if it were a prostitute who has caused other people to sin along with her. This may well have a double meaning: literal sexual immorality and also the worship of false gods. (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-personification]] and [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metaphor]])

# merchants

A merchant is a person who sells things.

# from the power of her sensual way of living

"because she spent so much money on sexual immorality"

# translationWords

* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/angel]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/heaven]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/authority]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/glory]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/voice]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/babylon]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/demon]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/unclean]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/nation]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/wine]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/king]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/fornication]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/power]]