# Connecting Statement:

Another voice from heaven begins to speak.

# General Information:

The pronouns "she" and "her" refer to the city of Babylon, which is spoken of as if it were a prostitute. (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-personification]])

# another voice

The word "voice" refers to the speaker, which is probably either Jesus or the Father. AT: "someone else" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metonymy]])

# Her sins have piled up as high as heaven

The voice speaks of Babylon's sins as if they were objects that could form a pile. AT: "Her sins are so many they are like a pile that reaches heaven" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metaphor]])

# remembered

"thought of" or "started to pay attention to." This does not mean that God remembered something he had forgotten. See how you translated "called to mind" in [Revelation 16:19](../16/17.md).

# Pay her back as she has paid others back

The voice speaks of punishment as if it were payment. AT: "Punish her as she has punished others" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metaphor]])

# repay her double

The voice speaks of punishment as if it were payment. AT: "punish her twice as much" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metaphor]])

# in the cup she mixed, mix double the amount for her

The voice speaks of causing others to suffer as preparing strong wine for them to drink. AT: "prepare for her the wine of suffering that is twice as strong as what she made for others" or "make her suffer twice as much as she made others suffer" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metaphor]])

# mix double the amount

Possible meanings are 1) "prepare twice the amount" or 2) "make it twice as strong"

# translationWords

* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/voice]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/heaven]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/peopleofgod]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/sin]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/receive]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/plague]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/god]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/evil]]