# General Information:

In these verses, the word "her" refers to the city of Babylon.

# because of the fear of her torment

This can be restated to remove the abstract nouns "fear" and "torment." AT: "because they will be afraid of God tormenting them they way he torments her" or "because they will be afraid of suffering the way she is suffering" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-abstractnouns]])

# weeping and mourning loudly

This is what the merchants will be doing. AT: "and they will weep and mourn loudly"

# the great city that was dressed in fine linen

Throughout this chapter, Babylon is spoken of as if it were a woman. The merchants speak of Babylon as being dressed in fine linen because its people were dressed in fine linen. AT: "the great city, which was like a woman dressed in fine linen" or "the great city, whose women were dressed in fine linen" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metaphor]] and [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metonymy]])

# that was dressed in fine linen

This can be stated in active form. AT: "that wore fine linen" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-activepassive]])

# was adorned with gold

This can be stated in active form. AT: "adorned herself with gold" or "adorned themselves with gold" or "wore gold" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-activepassive]])

# precious jewels

"valuable gems" or "treasured gems"

# pearls

beautiful and valuable white beads. They are formed inside the shell of a certain kind of small animal that lives in the ocean. See how you translated this in [Revelation 17:4](../17/03.md). (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/translate-unknown]])

# whose living is made from the sea

The phrase "from the sea" refers to what they do on the sea. AT: "who travel on the sea to make their living" or "who sail on the sea to different places in order to trade things" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metonymy]])

# translationWords

* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/woe]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/gold]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/waste]]