# Connecting Statement:

Another angel begins to speak about Babylon. This is a different angel than the ones who have spoken previously.

# millstone

a large round stone used to crush grain

# Babylon, the great city, will be thrown down with violence and will not be seen anymore

God will completely destroy the city. This can be stated in active form. AT: "God will violently throw down Babylon, the great city, and it will no longer exist" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metaphor]] and [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-activepassive]])

# will not be seen anymore

"no one will see it anymore." Not being seen here means that it will not exist. AT: "it will not exist anymore" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metonymy]])

# The sound made by harpists, musicians, flute players, and trumpeters will not be heard anymore in you

This can be stated in active form. AT: "No one in your city will ever again hear the sound that harpists, musicians, flute players, and trumpeters make" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-activepassive]])

# in you

The angel speaks as if Babylon were there listening to him. AT: "in Babylon" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-apostrophe]])

# will not be heard anymore in you

"no one will hear them anymore in you." Not being heard here means that they will not be there. AT: "they will not be in your city anymore" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metonymy]])

# No craftsman ... will be found in you

Not being found there means that they will not be there. AT: "No craftsman of any kind will be in your city" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metonymy]])

# No sound of a mill will be heard anymore in you

The sound of something not being heard means that no one will make that sound. AT: "No one will use a mill in your city" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metonymy]])

# translationWords

* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/angel]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/names/babylon]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/harp]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/flute]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/trumpet]]