# General Information:

This is the next part of John's vision. Here he describes the rejoicing in heaven over the fall of the great prostitute, who is the city of Babylon.

# I heard

Here "I" refers to John.

# Hallelujah

This word means "Praise God" or "Let us praise God."

# the great prostitute

Here John refers to the city of Babylon whose wicked people rule over all the people of the earth and lead them to worship false gods. He speaks of the wicked people of Babylon as if they were a great prostitute. (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metaphor]])

# who corrupted the earth

Here "the earth" is a metonym for its inhabitants. AT: "who corrupted the people of the earth" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metonymy]])

# the blood of his servants

Here "the blood" is a metonym that represents murder. AT: "murdering his servants" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metonymy]])

# she herself

This refers to Babylon. The reflexive pronoun "herself" is used to add emphasis. (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-rpronouns]])

# translationWords

* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/voice]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/heaven]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/salvation]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/glory]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/power]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/god]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/judge]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/true]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/justice]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/prostitute]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/corrupt]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/fornication]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/avenge]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/blood]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/servant]]