# Connecting Statement:

The voice of the crowd from the previous verse continues speaking.

# Let us rejoice

Here "us" refers to all of God's servants.

# give him the glory

"give God the glory" or "honor God"

# wedding celebration of the Lamb ... his bride has made herself ready

Here John speaks of the joining of Jesus and his people together forever as if it were a wedding celebration. (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metaphor]])

# Lamb

This is a young sheep. Here is it used symbolically to refer to Christ. See how you translated this in [Revelation 5:6](../05/06.md). (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/writing-symlanguage]])

# has come

Existing in the present is spoken of as having come. (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metaphor]])

# his bride has made herself ready

John speaks of God's people as if they were a bride who has gotten ready for her wedding. (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metaphor]])

# She was permitted to be dressed in bright and clean fine linen

Here "she" refers to the people of God. John speaks of the righteous acts of God's people as if they were a bright and clean dress that a bride wears on her wedding day. You can state this in active form. AT: "God allowed her to wear a dress of bright and clean fine linen" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metaphor]] and [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-activepassive]])

# translationWords

* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/rejoice]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/glory]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/lamb]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/bride]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/righteous]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/works]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/peopleofgod]]