# General Information:

An angel begins to speak to John. This is likely the same angel who began to speak to John in [Revelation 17:1](../17/01.md).

# those who are invited

You can state this in active form. AT: "the people whom God invites" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-activepassive]])

# the wedding feast of the Lamb

Here the angel speaks of the joining of Jesus and his people forever as if it were a wedding feast. (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metaphor]])

# I fell down at his feet

This means that John purposely lay on the ground and stretched himself out in reverence or submission. This action was an important part of worship, to show respect and willingness to serve. See note in [Revelation 19:3](./03.md).

# your brothers

The word "brothers" here refers to all believers, male and female.

# who hold the testimony about Jesus

Here holding stands for believing in or announcing. AT: "who speak the truth about Jesus" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metaphor]])

# for the testimony about Jesus is the spirit of prophecy

Here "spirit of prophecy" refers to God's Holy Spirit. AT: "for it is the Spirit of God who gives people the power to speak the truth about Jesus" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-explicit]])

# translationWords

* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/angel]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/bless]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/lamb]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/true]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/wordofgod]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/worship]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/servant]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/brother]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/testimony]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/jesus]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/god]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/holyspirit]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/prophet]]