# General Information:

This is the beginning of a new vision. John begins to describe a rider on a white horse.

# Then I saw heaven open

This imagery is used to signify the beginning of a new vision. See how you translated this idea in [Revelation 4:1](../04/01.md) and [Revelation 11:19](../11/19.md) and [Revelation 15:5](../15/05.md).

# The one riding it

The rider is Jesus.

# It is with justice that he judges and wages war

Here "justice" refers to what is right. AT: "He judges all people and wages war according to what is right" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-explicit]])

# His eyes are like a fiery flame

John speaks of the rider's eyes as if they shone like a flame of fire. (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-simile]])

# He has a name written on him

You can state this in active form. AT: "Someone has written a name on him" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-activepassive]])

# on him that no one knows but he himself

"on him, and only he knows the meaning of that name" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-rpronouns]])

# He wears a robe that was dipped in blood

You can state this in an active form. AT: "Blood had covered his robe" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-activepassive]])

# his name is called the Word of God

You can state this in active form. AT: "his name is also the Word of God" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-activepassive]])

# translationWords

* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/heaven]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/horse]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/call]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/faithful]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/true]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/justice]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/judgeposition]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/fire]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/crown]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/name]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/written]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/robe]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/blood]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/wordofgod]]