# the king's scribes were summoned ... a decree containing all that Haman had commanded was written

This can be stated in active form. AT: "the king summoned his scribes ... they wrote a decree containing all that Haman had commanded" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-activepassive]])

# thirteenth day of the first month

This is the first month of the Hebrew calendar. The thirteenth day is near the beginning of April on Western calendars. (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/translate-hebrewmonths]] and [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/translate-ordinal]])

# king's provincial governors

"governors of the provinces." Translate "province" as in [Esther 1:1](../01/01.md).

# It was written in the name of King Ahasuerus and was sealed with his ring

This can be stated in active form. AT: "They wrote the decree in the name of King Ahasuerus and Haman sealed it with the king's signet ring" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-activepassive]])

# in the name of

Here "name" represents the authority of the king. AT: "in the authority of" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metonymy]])

# Documents were hand-delivered by couriers

This can be translated in active form. AT: "Couriers hand-delivered the documents" or "Courtiers gave the documents directly" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-activepassive]])

# annihilate, kill, and destroy

These words mean the same thing and emphasize the completeness of the destruction. AT: "completely destroy" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-doublet]])

# thirteenth day of the twelfth month

"day thirteen of month twelve" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/translate-ordinal]])

# which is the month of Adar

"Adar" is the name of the twelfth and last month of the Hebrew calendar. The thirteenth day is near the beginning of March on Western calendars. (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/translate-hebrewmonths]] and [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/translate-names]])

# plunder

steal by force

# translationWords

* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/scribe]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/biblicaltimeday]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/written]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/governor]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/seal]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/jew]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/possess]]