# when my sword will have drunk its fill in heaven

Yahweh describes himself as a warrior bearing a sword. The phrase "drunk its fill" speaks of Yahweh's sword as if it were a person who has eaten and become satisfied. Yahweh uses this imagery to emphasize that there will be a lot of destruction in heaven and to state its completion. AT: "when I am finished destroying things in heaven" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metaphor]] and [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-personification]])

# look

This word is used here to draw the listener's attention and to have them imagine the things being said. AT: "listen" or "and then"

# it will now come down on Edom, on the people I am setting apart for destruction

The word "it" refers to Yahweh's sword. This continues the metaphor about Yahweh destroying things with a sword. AT: "I will come to punish the people of Edom, the people whom I have set aside for me to destroy" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metaphor]])

# on Edom

Edom refers to the people who live there. AT: "on the people of Edom" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metonymy]])

# The sword of Yahweh is dripping with blood and covered with fat ... of rams

This speaks of Yahweh killing the people as if he were a priest sacrificing animals. He does this by describing the sword of a priest. AT: "Yahweh sacrifices them as a priest sacrifices animals, whose sword drips with the blood and fat of lambs, goats, and rams" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metaphor]])

# For Yahweh has a sacrifice in Bozrah and a great slaughter in the land of Edom

The words "sacrifice" and "slaughter" may be expressed here as verbs. AT: "For Yahweh will sacrifice many people in Bozrah and kill many people in the land of Edom" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-abstractnouns]])

# Bozrah

This is an important city in Edom. (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/translate-names]])