# Connecting Statement:

Paul is on trial in Caesarea. Tertullus presents Governor Felix with the charges against Paul.

# General Information:

Here the word "you" refers to Felix, the governor. (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-you]])

# General Information:

Here "we" refers to the citizens under Felix. (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-exclusive]])

# After five days

"five days after the Roman soldiers took Paul to Caesarea"

# Ananias

This is the name of a man. This is not the same Ananias as in [Acts 5:1](../05/01.md) nor the same Ananias as in [Acts 9:10](../09/10.md). See how you translated this in [Acts 23:1](../23/01.md). (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/translate-names]])

# an orator

"a lawyer." Tertullus was an expert in Roman law who was there to accuse Paul in court.

# Tertullus

This is the name of a man. (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/translate-names]])

# went there

"went to Caesarea where Paul was"

# before the governor

"in the presence of the governor who was judge in the court"

# brought charges against Paul

"began to argue the case before the governor that Paul had broken the law."

# we have great peace

Here "we" refers to the citizens under Felix. AT: "we, the people that you govern, have great peace" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-exclusive]])

# and your foresight brings good reform to our nation

"and your planning has greatly improved our nation"

# most excellent Felix

"Governor Felix who deserves greatest honor" Felix was the roman governor over the whole region. See how you translated a similar phrase in [Acts 23:25](../23/25.md).

# translationWords

* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/biblicaltimeday]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/chiefpriests]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/elder]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/paul]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/governor]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/nation]]