# I admit this to you

"I acknowledge this to you" or "I confess this to you"

# that according to the Way

The phrase "the Way" was a title used for Christianity during Paul's time.

# they call a sect

This is a smaller group of people within a larger group group. Tertullus considers the Christians to be a small group within Judaism. See how you translated "sect" in [Acts 24:5](./04.md).

# in that same way I serve the God of our fathers

Paul uses the phrase "in that same way" to mean that he, as a believer in Jesus, serves God the same way as their Jewish ancestors did. He is not leading a "sect" or teaching something new that is opposed to their ancient religion.

# as these men

"as these men have." Here "these men" refers to the Jews who are accusing Paul in court.

# that there will be a resurrection of both the righteous and the wicked

The abstract noun "resurrection" can be stated with the verb "resurrect." AT: "that God will resurrect all who have died, both the righteous and the unrighteous" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-abstractnouns]])

# the righteous and the wicked

These nominal adjectives refer to righteous people and wicked people. AT "righteous people and wicked people" or "those who have done what is right and those who have done what is evil" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-nominaladj]])

# I always strive

"I always work hard" or "I do my best"

# to have a clear conscience before God

Here "conscience" refers to a person's inner morality that chooses between right and wrong. AT: "to be blameless" or "to always do what is right" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metonymy]])

# before God

"in the presence of God"

# translationWords

* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/god]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/father]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/faithful]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/lawofmoses]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/prophet]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/confidence]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/resurrection]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/death]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/righteous]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/unrighteous]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/conscience]]