# first year

This refers to the beginning of the reign of King Cyrus. (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/translate-ordinal]])

# Yahweh fulfilled his word that came from the mouth of Jeremiah

Here "mouth" represents speaking. AT: "Yahweh did what Jeremiah prophesied that Yahweh would do" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metonymy]])

# Yahweh

This is the name of God that he revealed to his people in the Old Testament. See the translationWord page about Yahweh concerning how to translate this.

# Yahweh ... stirred Cyrus's spirit

Here Cyrus is represented by his spirit. This speaks of Yahweh causing Cyrus to want to act as if he "stirred" his spirit. AT: "Yahweh ... made Cyrus want to act" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-synecdoche]] and [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metaphor]])

# Cyrus' voice went out over his entire kingdom

The voice is a metonym for the message the voice speaks, and the kingdom is a metonym for the people whom a king rules. AT: "Cyrus sent a message to everyone over whom he ruled" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metonymy]])

# what was written and spoken

This can be translated in active form. It might be best to translate so the reader understands that other people might have helped Cyrus get the message to the people over whom he ruled. AT: "what Cyrus wrote and what his messengers read so people could hear them" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-activepassive]] and [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-explicit]])

# all the kingdoms of the earth

Here "all" is an exaggeration, as there were kingdoms over which Cyrus did not rule. (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-hyperbole]])

# for him a house in ... Judea

You may need to make explicit that the house was for people to worship Yahweh. AT: "a house in ... Judea where people can worship him" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-explicit]])

# translationWords

* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/names/cyrus]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/king]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/names/persia]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/yahweh]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/fulfill]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/word]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/names/jeremiah]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/spirit]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/kingdom]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/god]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/heaven]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/appoint]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/houseofgod]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/names/jerusalem]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/names/judea]]