# Open your doors, Lebanon, that fire may devour

Not resisting what is about to happen is spoken of as if Lebanon were opening its doors. Here "Lebanon" is a metonym that represents the people of Lebanon. AT: "People of Lebanon, get ready, because fire will devour" or "People of Lebanon, do not try to stop the fire that will devour" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metaphor]] and [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metonymy]])

# fire may devour your cedars

Fire completely burning up the cedars is spoken of as if the fire would devour the cedars. AT: "fire may completely destroy your cedars" or "fire may completely burn up your cedars" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metaphor]])

# Lament, cypress trees, for the cedar trees have fallen

Cypress trees are spoken of as if they could grieve like a human. AT: "If the trees were people, they would cry out in sorrow. The cypress trees stand alone because the cedars have burned and fallen" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-personification]])

# What was majestic has been devastated

This can be stated in active form. AT: "The majestic cedar trees are no more" or "The cedar trees were once majestic, but now they are ruined" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-activepassive]])

# Lament, you oaks of Bashan, for the strong forest has gone down.

The oaks of Bash are spoken of as if they could grieve like a human. AT: "If the oak trees in Bashan were people, they would wail, for their thick forests are gone" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-personification]])

# The shepherds howl

"The shepherds cry out loudly"

# for their glory has been destroyed

Here "their glory" probably represents the rich pastures that the shepherds led their sheep to. AT: "for their rich pastures are ruined" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metonymy]])

# for the pride of the Jordan River has been devastated

Here "the pride" probably represents the forests that grew near the Jordan River. AT: "because the trees and shrubbery where they lived by the Jordan River are ruined" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metonymy]])