# Connecting Statement:

Jesus is still speaking in front of the crowd. Some people in the crowd ask him a question and he begins to respond. This continues the story that begins in [Luke 12:1](../12/01.md).

# At that time

This phrase connects this event to the end of chapter 12, when Jesus was teaching a crowd of people.

# whose blood Pilate mixed with their own sacrifices

Here "blood" refers to the death of the Galileans. They were probably killed while they were offering their sacrifices. This could be stated explicitly as in the UDB. (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-explicit]])

# whose blood Pilate mixed with their own sacrifices

Pilate probably ordered his soldiers to kill people rather than doing it himself. AT: "whom Pilate's soldiers killed as they were sacrificing animals" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metonymy]])

# Do you think that these Galileans were more sinful ... way? No, I tell you

"Were these Galileans more sinful ... way? No, I tell you" or "Does this prove that these Galileans were more sinful ... way? No, I tell you." Jesus uses this question to challenge the understanding of the people. AT: "You think that these Galileans were more sinful ... way, but they were not" or "Do not think that these Galileans were more sinful ... way" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-rquestion]])

# No, I tell you

Here "I tell you" emphasizes "no." AT: "They certainly were not more sinful" or "You are wrong to think that their suffering proves that they were more sinful"

# all of you will perish in the same way

"all of you also will die." The phrase "in the same way" means they will experience the same result, not that they will die by the same method.

# perish

die

# translationWords

* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/names/galilee]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/names/pilate]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/sacrifice]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/jesus]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/sin]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/suffer]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/repent]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/perish]]