# The Lord answered him

"The Lord responded to the synagogue ruler"

# Hypocrites

Jesus speaks directly to the synagogue ruler, but the plural form includes the other religious rulers also. This can be stated explicitly. AT: "You and your fellow religious leaders are hypocrites" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-explicit]])

# Does not each of you untie your donkey ... Sabbath?

Jesus uses a question to get them to think about something they already knew. AT: "You untie your donkey ... Sabbath" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-rquestion]])

# donkey or cow

These are animals that people care for by giving them water.

# on the Sabbath

"on a Sabbath." Some languages would say "a Sabbath" because we do not know which particular Sabbath day it was.

# daughter of Abraham

This is an idiom that means, "descendant of Abraham" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-idiom]])

# whom Satan bound

Jesus compares people tying animals to the way Satan restricted the woman with this disease. AT: "whom Satan kept crippled by her illness" or "whom Satan bound with this disease" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metaphor]])

# eighteen long years

"18 long years." The word "long" here emphasizes that eighteen years was a very long time for the woman to suffer. Other languages may have other ways of emphasizing this. (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/translate-numbers]])

# should her bonds not be untied ... day?

Jesus uses a question to convict the synagogue rulers. Jesus speaks about the women's disease as if it were ropes that bound her. This can be translated as an active statement. AT: "it is right to release her from the bonds of this illness ... day" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-rquestion]] and [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-activepassive]])

# translationWords

* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/lordgod]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/hypocrite]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/donkey]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/cow]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/sabbath]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/names/abraham]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/satan]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/bond]]