# General Information:

This is the next part of the story. Jesus responds to a question by using a metaphor about entering God's kingdom. (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metaphor]])

# Jesus visited each town and village ... and taught them

This is background information that tell us what Jesus had been doing when this event occurred. (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/writing-background]])

# taught them

Here "town" and "village" are metonyms for the people who lived in them. AT: "taught the people in them" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metonymy]])

# are only a few people to be saved?

This could be stated in active form. AT: "will God save only a few people?" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-activepassive]])

# Struggle to enter through the narrow door

"Work hard to go through the narrow doorway." Jesus is speaking about the entrance to God's kingdom as if it were a small doorway to a house. Since Jesus is talking to a group, the "you" implied in this command is plural. (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metaphor]] and [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-you]])

# the narrow door

The fact that the door is narrow implies that it is difficult to go through it. Translate it in a way to keep this restrictive meaning. (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-explicit]])

# many will want to enter, but will not be able to enter

It is implied that they will not be able to enter because of the difficulty of entering. The next verse explains the difficulty. (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-explicit]])

# translationWords

* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/names/jerusalem]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/lordgod]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/save]]