# Connecting Statement:

Jesus finishes responding to the Pharisees. This is the end of this part of the story.

# Jerusalem, Jerusalem

Jesus speaks as if the people of Jerusalem were there listening to him. Jesus said this twice to show how sad he was for them. (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-apostrophe]])

# who kills the prophets and stones those sent to you

If it would be strange to address the city, you can make it clear that Jesus was really addressing the people in the city: "you people who kill the prophets and stone those sent to you" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metonymy]])

# those sent to you

This can be stated in active form. AT: "those God has sent to you" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-activepassive]])

# How often I desired

"I so often desired." This is an exclamation and not a question.

# to gather your children

The people of Jerusalem are described as her "children." AT: "to gather your people" or "to gather the people of Jerusalem" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metonymy]])

# the way a hen gathers her brood under her wings

This describes how a hen protects her young from harm by covering them with her wings. (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metaphor]])

# your house is abandoned

This is a prophecy about something that would happen soon. It means that God has stopped protecting the people of Jerusalem, so enemies can attack them and drive them away. Possible meanings are 1) God will abandon them. AT: "God will abandon you" or 2) their city will be empty. AT: "your house will be abandoned" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metaphor]])

# you will not see me until you say

"you will not see me until the time comes when you will say" or "the next time you see me, you will say"

# the name of the Lord

Here "name" refers to the Lord's power and authority. (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metonymy]])

# translationWords

* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/jerusalem]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/prophet]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/stone]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/send]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/bless]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/name]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/lordgod]]