# sins and acts unfaithfully in regard to the things that belong to Yahweh

This means the person sinned by not giving to Yahweh what Yahweh commanded him to give. AT: "sins by failing to give to Yahweh what belongs to Yahweh"

# its value must be appraised in silver shekels

This can be stated in active form. AT: "he must determine how many shekels the ram is worth" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-activepassive]])

# shekels

A shekel is about 11 grams in weight. (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/translate-bmoney]])

# the shekel of the sanctuary

This probably means there were at least two ways of measuring a shekel. This refers to how the priests of the sanctuary weigh a shekel. AT: "the official standard in the sacred tent"

# the sanctuary

This is another name for the holy tent.

# he must add one-fifth

This means the person must pay an extra one-fifth of the value of what he owes to Yahweh.

# one-fifth

This is one part out of five equal parts. (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/translate-fraction]])

# the priest will make atonement for him

The abstract noun "atonement" can be stated as a verb. AT: "the priest will atone for him" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-abstractnouns]])

# that person will be forgiven

This can be stated in active form. AT: "Yahweh will forgive that person" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-activepassive]])

# translationWords

* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/yahweh]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/names/moses]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/command]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/sin]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/guiltoffering]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/sheep]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/blemish]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/flock]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/sanctuary]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/wrong]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/holy]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/priest]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/atonement]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/forgive]]