# General Information:

Tradition identifies the apostle John as the writer of this letter. Though possibly addressed to an individual woman, because he writes that they should "love one another," this is probably to a church.

# General Information:

All instances of "you" and "your" in this letter are plural unless noted otherwise. (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-you]])

# General Information:

In this letter, John includes himself and his readers by using the word "us" and "our" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-inclusive]])

# From the elder to the chosen lady and her children

This is how letters were started. The name of the author can be made explicit. AT: "I, John the elder, am writing this letter to the chosen lady and her children" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-explicit]])

# the elder

This refers to John, the apostle and disciple of Jesus. He refers to himself as "elder" either because of his old age or because he is a leader in the church.

# to the chosen lady and her children

This probably refers to a congregation and the believers that belong to it. (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metaphor]])

# whom I love in truth

"you people whom I truly love"

# who have known the truth

who have known the truth about God and Jesus

# Father ... Son

These are important titles that describe the relationship between God and Jesus. (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/guidelines-sonofgodprinciples]])

# in truth and love

The word "truth" describes "love." Possibly it means "in true love." (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-hendiadys]])