## translationWords

* [[en:tw:adultery]]
* [[en:tw:god]]
* [[en:tw:spirit]]
* [[en:tw:wordofgod]]
* [[en:tw:world]]

## translationNotes

* **You adulteresses!** - This is a metaphor that compares believers who do not obey God with a wife who has sex with a man that is not her husband. This could be translated as "You are not being loyal to God!" (See: [[en:ta:vol1:translate:figs_metaphor]])
* **Don't you know** - This is a rhetorical question that James uses to teach his audience. Alternate translation: "You know." (See: [[en:ta:vol1:translate:figs_rquestion]])
* **friendship with the world** - "friendship with the world" refers to identify with or participate in the world's value system and behavior. (See: [[en:ta:vol2:translate:figs_metonymy]]).
* **is hostility against God** - <b>is hostility against God</b>  To be part of the world's value system is to be against God. Alternated translation: "to act like those who dishonor God is to be someone who opposes God."
* **to be a friend of the world** - "to act like those who dishonor God"
* **Or do you think the scripture is useless** - This is a rhetorical question James uses to exhort his audience. It can be translated as a statement: "Scripture is true."
* **the spirit God placed in us is now filled with deep longing** - There are several issues that are not clear in this verse. Is "spirit" the Holy Spirit or a human spirit? Does God or the spirit have the "deep longing"? Is the "deep longing" good or evil?  Does the rhetorical question expect a "yes" or "no" answer? This uncertainty results in at least five possible meanings: 1) "yes, God deeply longs for the human spirit he put in us" or 2) "yes, God deeply longs for the Holy Spirit he place in us" or 3) "yes, the human spirit that God placed in us has evil desires" or 4) "yes, the Holy Spirit that God placed in us deeply longs for us" or 5) "no, the Holy Spirit that God placed in us is not jealous." We suggest that you use the meaning that is presented in other translations used by your readers.
