# Connecting Statement:

Paul reminds the believers in Corinth of the true signs of an apostle and of his humility before them to strengthen them.

# I have become a fool

"I am acting like a fool"

# You forced me to this

"You forced me to talk this way"

# I should have been praised by you

This can be stated in active form. AT: "it is praise that you should have given me" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-activepassive]])

# praised

Possible meanings are 1) "praise" ([2 Corinthians 03:1](../03/01.md)) or 2) "recommend" ([2 Corinthians 04:2](../04/01.md)).

# For I was not at all inferior to

By using the negative form, Paul is saying strongly that those Corinthians who think that he is inferior are wrong. AT: "For I am just as good as" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-litotes]])

# super-apostles

Paul uses irony here to show that those teachers are less important then people say they are. See how this is translated in [2 Corinthians 11:05](../11/05.md). AT: "those teachers whom some think are better than anyone else" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-irony]])

# The true signs of an apostle were performed

This can be stated in active form, with emphasis on the "signs." AT: "It is the true signs of an apostle that I performed" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-activepassive]])

# signs ... signs

Use the same word both times.

# signs and wonders and mighty deeds

These are the "true signs of an apostle" that Paul performed "with complete patience."

# how were you less important than the rest of the churches, except that ... you?

Paul is emphasizing that the Corinthians are wrong to accuse him of wanting to do them harm. This rhetorical question can be translated as a statement. AT: "I treated you the same way I treated all the other churches, except that ... you." (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-rquestion]])

# I was not a burden to you

"I did not ask you for money or other things I needed"

# Forgive me for this wrong!

Paul is being ironic to shame the Corinthians. Both he and they know that he has done them no wrong, but they have been treating him as though he has wronged them. (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-irony]])

# this wrong

not asking them for money and other things he needed