# But, since I am so crafty, I am the one who caught you by deceit

Paul uses irony to shame the Corinthians who think he lied to them even if he did not ask them for money. AT: "but others think I was deceptive and used trickery" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-irony]])

# Did I take advantage of you by anyone I sent to you?

Both Paul and the Corinthians know the answer is no. This rhetorical question can be translated as a statement. AT: "No one that I sent to you has taken advantage of you!" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-rquestion]])

# Did Titus take advantage of you?

Both Paul and the Corinthians know the answer is no. This rhetorical question can be translated as a statement. AT: "Titus did not take advantage of you." (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-rquestion]])

# Did we not walk in the same way?

Paul speaks of living as if it were walking on a road. Both Paul and the Corinthians know the answer to the question is yes. This rhetorical question can be translated as a statement. AT: "We all have the same attitude and live alike." (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-rquestion]])

# Did we not walk in the same steps?

Paul speaks of living as if it were walking on a road. Both Paul and the Corinthians know the answer to the question is yes. This rhetorical question can be translated as a statement. AT: "We all do things the same way." (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-rquestion]])

# translationWords

* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/burden]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/titus]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/brother]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/walk]]