# behold

Ezekiel was surprised by what he saw

# wheels

See how you translated this in [Ezekiel 1:15](../01/15.md).

# cherubim

See how you translated this in [Ezekiel 9:3](../09/03.md).

# cherub

This is the singular form of "cherubim."

# the appearance of the wheels was like a beryl stone

The abstract noun "appearance" can be translated as a verb. AT: "the wheels appeared to be like a beryl stone" or "what appeared to be wheels were like a beryl stone" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-abstractnouns]])

# beryl stone

"Beryl" is a very hard, valuable stone. This beryl was probably green or blue. (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/translate-unknown]])

# Their appearance was the same likeness for all four of them

The abstract noun "appearance" can be translated as a verb. The abstract noun "likeness" can be translated as an adjective. AT: "All four of them appeared to be similar" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-abstractnouns]])

# a wheel intersecting another wheel

The word "intersecting" means "crossing" or "passing through."

# they went in any of their four directions

Possible meanings are 1) "their" refers to the creatures. AT: "they would go straight in any one of the four directions that the creatures looked towards" or 2) "their" refers to the wheels.

# whatever direction the head faced, they followed

Possible meanings for "the head" are 1) this refers to the winged creatures. AT: "they went in whatever direction the winged creatures were looking" or 2) this refers to the front wheel. AT: "they followed in whatever direction the front wheel went"