# Will it prosper?

Yahweh asks this as a leading question to emphasize the negative answer. This can be translated as as statement. AT: "It will not prosper." (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-rquestion]])

# Will it not be uprooted and stripped of its fruit so that it withers, and all its fresh growth will wither?

Yahweh asks this rhetorical question to emphasize that the vine will certainly be judged. The question can be translated as a statement. It can also be stated in active form. AT: "Someone will pull up its roots and pluck out its fruit so all of its growth of leaves will wither away." (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-rquestion]] and [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-activepassive]])

# No strong arm or many people will be needed to pull it out

The phrase "strong arm" represents a strong person. This can be stated in active form. AT: "There will be no need for a strong person or many people to pull it out" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-synecdoche]] and [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-activepassive]])

# behold

"look" or "listen" or "pay attention to what I am about to tell you" The word "behold" here adds emphasis to what follows.

# will it grow?

Yahweh asks this as a leading question to emphasize the negative answer. The question can be translated as a statement. AT: "It will not grow." (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-rquestion]])

# Will it not wither when the eastern wind touches it?

Yahweh asks this rhetorical question to emphasize that this will certainly happen. It can be translated as a statement. AT: "It will wither when the eastern wind touches it." (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-rquestion]]).

# when the eastern wind touches it

"when the eastern wind blows on it"