# General Information:

Yahweh speaks about the king of Jerusalem rebelling against the king of Babylon.

# Will he succeed?

Yahweh asks this leading question to emphasize the negative answer. This question can be translated as a statement. AT: "He will certainly not succeed." (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-rquestion]])

# Will the one doing these things escape?

Yahweh asks this leading question to emphasize the negative answer. This may be translated as a statement. AT: "The one doing these things will not escape." (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-rquestion]])

# If he breaks the covenant, will he escape?

Yahweh asks this leading question to emphasize the negative answer. This question can be translated as as statement. AT: "If he breaks the covenant, he will certainly not escape." (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-rquestion]])

# As I live

"As surely as I am alive." Yahweh uses this expression to show that what he says next is certainly true. This is a way of making a solemn promise. See how you translated this in [Ezekiel 5:11](../05/11.md). AT: "I solemnly swear" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-idiom]])

# this is the Lord Yahweh's declaration

Yahweh speaks of himself by name to express the certainty of what he is declaring. See how you translated this in [Ezekiel 5:11](../05/11.md). AT: "this is what the Lord Yahweh has declared" or "this is what I, the Lord Yahweh, have declared" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-123person]])

# the land of the king who made him king, the king whose oath he despised

"the land of the king of Babylon who made him King of Judah, the king of Babylon whose oath he despised"