# was it not my oath that he despised and my covenant that he broke?

Yahweh asks this leading question to emphasize the affirmative answer. This question can be translated as a statement. AT: "it was my oath that the king of Jerusalem despised and my covenant that he broke." (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-rquestion]]).

# I will bring his punishment on his head

The idiom "bring ... on his head" means that he will experience this punishment. See how you translated this idiom in [Ezekiel 11:21](../11/19.md). AT: "I will cause him to suffer his punishment" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-idiom]])

# I will spread my net out over him, and he will be caught in my hunting net

Yahweh speaks of enabling the enemy army to capture the king as if he were trapping the king in a net. (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metaphor]])

# he will be caught in my hunting net

This can be translated in active form. AT: "I will catch him in my hunting net" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-activepassive]])

# All of his refugees ... armies will fall by the sword

The word "fall" is a euphemism for "die." Here the word "sword" is a metonym for soldiers who kill people with swords. AT: "Soldiers will kill all his refugees ... armies" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metonymy]])

# the ones who remain will be scattered in every direction

This can be stated in active form. AT: "the ones who remain alive will flee in every direction" or "the enemy soldiers will scatter in every directions the ones who remain alive" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-activepassive]])

# know that I am Yahweh

When Yahweh says that people will know that he is Yahweh, he is implying that they will know that he is the one true God who has supreme authority and power. See how you translated this in [Ezekiel 6:7](../06/06.md). AT: "understand that I am Yahweh, the one true God" or "realize that I, Yahweh, have supreme power and authority" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-explicit]])

# translationWords

* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/lordyahweh]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/life]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/oath]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/covenant]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/punish]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/babylon]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/judge]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/betray]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/sword]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/declare]]