# she arose and killed all the royal children

Here the writer speaks of Athaliah as if she killed the children herself, but the reader should understand that she would have ordered her servants to kill them. AT: "she commanded her servants to kill all the royal children" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metonymy]])

# all the royal children

This refers only to the males, because they could become king. Verse 11 confirms that the sons were the ones who were killed. (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-explicit]])

# the house of Judah

The word "house" is a metonym for the family that lives in the house. In this case, it refers to the kingdom of Judah. AT: "Judah" or "the kingdom of Judah" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metonymy]])

# Jehosheba, a daughter of the king ... a daughter of King Jehoram

Here "the king" refers to Jehoram, the father of Ahaziah. (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/translate-names]])

# his nurse

This refers to a person who cares for a child, not to a medical person.

# into a bedroom

Verse 12 makes it clear that this bedroom was located in the temple. Jehosheba could access that room because she was married to Jehoiada who was a priest.

# Jehoiada

This is a man's name. (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/translate-names]])

# He was with them

"Joash was with Jehosheba and Jehoiada"

# translationWords

* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/athaliah]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/death]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/king]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/priest]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/houseofgod]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/reign]]