# General Information:

Parallelism is common in Hebrew poetry. (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/writing-poetry]] and [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-parallelism]])

# General Information:

This psalm is a song of praise.

# with all my life

This phrase means that he will praise Yahweh wholeheartedly and is used to emphasize his devotion to him. AT: "with all of me" or "with all my soul"(See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metonymy]])

# you are clothed with splendor and majesty

The words "splendor" and "majesty" have similar meanings and emphasize the greatness of Yahweh's glory. They are described as clothing Yahweh like a garment. AT: "you have splendor and majesty all around you" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-doublet]] and [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metaphor]])

# You cover yourself with light as with a garment

Yahweh is described as being covered with light as if the light were a garment around him. AT: "You are covered in light" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-simile]])

# you spread out the heavens like a tent curtain

Here God is described as spreading out the heavens like someone spreads out a tent when setting it up. AT: "you spread out the heavens like someone sets up a tent" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-simile]])

# You lay the beams of your chambers on the clouds

"You build your upper rooms in the heavens." This is referring to his house is so tall that the upper floor extends into the clouds.

# you make the clouds your chariot

Here the clouds are described as carrying Yahweh as if they were a chariot. AT: "you make the clouds carry you like a chariot" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metaphor]])

# you walk on the wings of the wind

Here the blowing of the wind is described as wings on which Yahweh walks. AT: "you walk upon the wind" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metaphor]])

# translationWords

* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/yahweh]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/god]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/clothed]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/splendor]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/majesty]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/light]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/heaven]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/tent]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/curtain]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/chariot]]