# General Information:

In these verses, the word "our" does not always refer to the same group of people. Please see the translation notes for specifics.

# May our God ... our Lord Jesus

Paul includes the Thessalonian believers with his ministry team. (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-inclusive]])

# May our God

"We pray that our God"

# direct our way to you

Paul speaks as if he wants God to show him and his companions the route to take to visit the Thessalonian Christians. He means that he wants God to make it possible for them to do so. (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metaphor]])

# direct our way to you

The word "our" refers to Paul, Silvanus, and Timothy but not the Thessalonian believers. (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-exclusive]])

# Father himself

Here "himself" refers back to "Father" for emphasis. (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-rpronouns]])

# increase and abound in love

Paul speaks of love as an object that one could obtain more of. (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metaphor]])

# strengthen your hearts, so that they will be

Here "heart" is a metonym for one's beliefs and convictions. AT: "strenghten you, so that you will be" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metonymy]])

# at the coming of our Lord Jesus

"when Jesus comes back to earth"

# with all his saints

"with all those who belong to him"

# translationWords

* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/god]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/godthefather]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/lord]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/jesus]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/love]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/heart]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/blameless]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/holy]]