# The more words that are spoken

This can be stated in active form. AT: "The more words that people speak" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-activepassive]])

# the more futility increases

The more a person speaks, the more likely he will speak about meaningless things. AT: "the more meaningless those words are"

# futility

being useless, without profit

# what advantage is that to a man?

The author uses this rhetorical question to emphasize that there is no advantage for a man to talk a lot. This question can be written as a statement. AT: "that is no advantage to a man." (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-rquestion]])

# For who knows what is good for man ... he passes like a shadow?

The author uses this rhetorical question to emphasize that no person truly knows what is good for man. This question can be written as a statement. AT: "No one knows what is good for man ... he passes like a shadow." (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-rquestion]])

# in his life during his futile, numbered days through which he passes like a shadow

This speaks of how life passes quickly by saying that it is like a shadow that quickly disappears. The phrase "numbered days" emphasizes that a person's life is short. AT: "during his futile, short life, which he passes through as quickly as a shadow passes by" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-simile]])

# Who can tell a man ... after he passes?

The author uses this rhetorical question to emphasize that no one knows what will happen after a person dies. This question can be written as a statement. AT: "No one can tell a man ... after he passes." (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-rquestion]])

# what will come under the sun

This refers to things that are done on earth. See how you translated "under the sun" in [Ecclesiastes 1:3](../01/01.md). AT: "what will happen on the earth" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-idiom]])

# after he passes

This is a polite expression for death. AT: "after he dies" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-euphemism]])

# translationWords

* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/good]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/shadow]]