# After whom has the king of Israel come out? After whom do you pursue?

These rhetorical questions can be translated as statements. When David asks the questions, he knows that he will answer the questions himself. AT: "Let me tell you who the king of Israel has come out after. Let me tell you who it is that you are pursuing." (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-rquestion]])

# After a dead dog

The words "dead dog" are a metaphor for a powerless person. This sentence can be made complete. AT: "You are pursuing a person who is as powerless as a dead dog" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metaphor]] and [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-ellipsis]])

# After a flea

The word "flea" is a metaphor for a person whom others do not consider important. AT: "You are pursuing a person who is as unimportant as a flea" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metaphor]] and [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-ellipsis]])

# see to it, and plead my cause

Possible meanings are 1) "do what is right, and plead my cause" or 2) "see that my cause is right and fight for me."

# from your hand

The word "hand" is a metonym for power. AT: "so that you have no power over me" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metonymy]])

# translationWords

* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/king]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/israel]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/death]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/yahweh]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/judge]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/plead]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/hand]]