# General Information:

Yahweh answers Habakkuk.

# Record this vision, and write plainly on the tablets

Both of these phrases are saying the same thing in two different ways. AT: "Write this vision clearly on the tablets" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-parallelism]])

# tablets

These are flat pieces of stone or clay that were used for writing.

# so that the one reading them might run

Possible meanings are 1) that the message is easy enough to read that a messenger can read it as he runs from place to place proclaiming the message. AT: "so that the one reading the tablets might be able to run as he reads" or 2) this is a metaphor in which Yahweh speaks of reading something very quickly as if the person who reads it is running. AT: "so that the one reading the tablets might be able to read quickly" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metaphor]])

# the vision ... will finally speak

Yahweh speaks of the events in the vision happening as if the vision were a person who speaks. AT: "the vision ... will finally happen" or "the vision ... will finally come true" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metaphor]] and [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-personification]])

# Though it delays, wait for it. For it will surely come and will not tarry

Yahweh speaks of the events of the vision taking a long time to happen as if the vision were a person who does not arrive soon at his destination. (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metaphor]] and [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-personification]])

# will not tarry

Possible meanings are 1) "will not be late" or 2) "will not come slowly"