# General Information:

Yahweh continues to answer Habakkuk. Here he speaks of the Chaldeans as if they were one prideful, drunken man who can never have enough. (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metaphor]])

# Look!

The word "Look!" here adds emphasis to what follows.

# is puffed up

Yahweh speaks of the person who is prideful as if the person were "puffed up." AT: "is very prideful" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metaphor]])

# For wine is a betrayer of the arrogant young man

Yahweh speaks of how a person's judgment is impaired by drinking too much wine as if wine were a person who betrays the one who drinks it. AT: "For the arrogant young man does not get from wine what he wants" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-personification]])

# so that he will not abide

Here the word "abide" refers to dwelling in a home and is a metaphor for having no place to rest. AT: "so that he will not be able to rest" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metaphor]])

# enlarges his desire like the grave and, like death, is never satisfied

Yahweh speaks of there always being more people to die as if "the grave" and "death" were people who are never satisfied with eating. In the same way, this person always wants more and is never satisfied. (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metaphor]])

# He gathers to himself every nation and gathers up for himself all of the peoples

These two phrases mean basically the same thing. Yahweh speaks of conquering nations and capturing the people as if it were gathering nations and peoples to oneself. AT: "He conquers for himself the people of every nation" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-parallelism]] and [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metaphor]])

# translationWords

* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/righteous]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/faith]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/wine]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/betray]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/death]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/nation]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/peoplegroup]]