# General Information:

Yahweh continues to answer Habakkuk and to speak of the Chaldeans as if they were one man. (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metaphor]])

# the one who carves out evil gains

A person making a profit by violent means is spoken of as if he were "carving out" gains from something. (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metaphor]])

# the one who carves out evil gains for his house

Possible meanings are 1) the word "house" is a metaphor in which the Babylonian empire is spoken of as if it were a house that the man builds by means of profits that he gained through violence. AT: "the one who builds his house with riches that he gained through violence" or 2) the word "house" is a metonym for "family" and the man has made his family rich through violence. AT: "the one who makes his family rich by violent means" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metaphor]] and [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metonymy]])

# so he can set his nest on high to keep himself safe from the hand of evil

The person who builds his house is spoken of as if he were a bird that builds its nest in a high place. The man thinks that his house is secure and free from danger, just as predators are unable to reach the nest. (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metaphor]])

# safe from the hand of evil

Here the word "hand" is a metonym for power, and the word "evil" is a metonym for people who do evil things. AT: "safe from the power of evil" or "safe from people who will harm him" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metonymy]])

# You have devised shame for your house

Here to "devise shame" means that the plans that the man devised have resulted in shame. Possible meanings are 1) the word "house" is a metaphor in which the Babylonian empire is spoken of as if it were a house that the man has built. AT: "By your plans, you have brought shame on the house that you have built" or 2) the word "house" is a metonym for "family." AT: "By your plans, you have brought shame on your family" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metaphor]] and [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metonymy]])

# cutting off many people

Killing many people is spoken of as if it were cutting those people off, like one would cut a branch from a tree. AT: "killing many people" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metaphor]])

# have sinned against yourself

The idiom "to sin against oneself" means that the person has done things that will result in his own death or destruction. AT: "have caused your own ruin" or "have brought about your own death" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-idiom]])

# For the stones will cry out from the wall, and the rafters of timber will answer them

Here the materials with which the man has built his house are personified as witnesses of the crimes that he has committed. If your culture uses different materials to build houses, you can consider using those materials here. (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-personification]])

# cry out

"cry out against you" or "cry out to accuse you"

# will answer them

"will agree with the stones"