# General Information:

Yahweh continues to answer Habakkuk and to speak of the Chaldeans as if they were one man. (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metaphor]])

# the one who forces his neighbors to drink ... you make them drunk

The way that the Chaldeans cruelly treated other nations is spoken of as if they were a man who forces his neighbors to become drunk so that he can humiliate them. (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metaphor]])

# the one who forces his neighbors to drink

It is implied that he makes his neighbor drink wine. AT: "the one who forces his neighbors to drink wine" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-explicit]])

# in order to look at their nakedness

"so you can look at them when they are naked." This refers to the practice of publicly humiliating people by stripping them naked in front of others. AT: "so that you can humiliate them publicly by stripping them naked" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-explicit]])

# You will be filled with shame instead of glory

The Chaldeans passionately pursuing their own glory is spoken of as if they were eating or drinking it greedily and excessively. Instead of attaining glory, they will find only shame. AT: "You will bring shame upon yourself instead of the glory that you seek" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metaphor]])

# Drink

Others treating the Chaldeans the way that the Chaldeans had treated others is spoken of as if the Chaldeans were to drink the wine that they had forced others to drink. AT: "Drink from the cup" or "Drink the wine" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metaphor]] and [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-explicit]])

# you will expose your uncircumcised foreskin

This phrase is similar to the Chaldeans forcing others to strip naked so that they could look at their nakedness. Here the words "uncircumcised foreskin" indicate that they will be humiliated not just by being naked, but because their uncircumcision proves that they do not belong to Yahweh's people. (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-explicit]])

# The cup in Yahweh's right hand is coming around to you

Yahweh punishing the Chaldeans is spoken of as if he were forcing them to drink wine from a cup that he holds in his hand. Yahweh's right hand represents his power. (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metaphor]])

# The cup in Yahweh's right hand

"The cup that Yahweh holds in his right hand" or "The cup that Yahweh is holding"

# is coming around to you

"will come to you as it did to others" or "will pass along to you"

# disgrace will cover your glory

The Chaldeans experiencing disgrace instead of glory is spoken of as if disgrace were an object that covers the glory that they thought they had. AT: "disgrace will replace your glory" or "people will disgrace you instead of honor you" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metaphor]])

# translationWords

* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/neighbor]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/shame]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/honor]]