# Hanani, the seer

"Hanani" is the name of a man. See how you translated this in [2 Chronicles 16:7](../16/07.md). (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/translate-names]])

# went out to meet him

Here the word "him" refers to Jehoshaphat.

# Should you be helping the wicked? Should you be loving those who hate Yahweh?

These questions expect negative answers to make the point that Jehoshaphat should not have helped Ahab. AT: "You should not help the wicked! You should not love those who hate Yahweh!" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-rquestion]])

# the wicked

This refers to wicked people in general. AT: "wicked people" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-nominaladj]])

# anger from Yahweh is on you

The abstract noun "anger" can be translated using the word "angry." This phrase can be expressed in active form. AT: "Yahweh is angry with you" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-abstractnouns]] and [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-activepassive]])

# there is some good to be found in you

The abstract noun "good" can be translated as an adjective. This phrase can be expressed in active form. AT: "you have done some good things" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-abstractnouns]] and [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-activepassive]])

# you have taken the Asherah poles out of the land

Since Jehoshaphat was king, he may have told his officials to do these things for him. AT: "you have had your people take the Asherah poles out of the land" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metonymy]])

# Asherah poles

See how you translated this in [2 Chronicles 14:3](../14/01.md).

# fixed your heart

Here the heart represents the will. Jehoshaphat's will is spoken of as being fixed or immovable, which means having an unchanging intention to seek God. AT: "firmly decided" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-idiom]])

# seek God

Wanting to do what pleases God is spoken of as if Jehoshaphat were seeking him. AT: "do what pleases God" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metaphor]])

# translationWords

* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/jehoshaphat]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/king]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/kingdomofjudah]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/jerusalem]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/jehu]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/prophet]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/evil]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/yahweh]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/works]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/asherim]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/heart]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/seek]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/god]]