# The vision of Obadiah

This is the title of the book. Here "vision" is used in the general sense of a message from Yahweh, rather than to indicate how Obadiah received the message. AT: "The message of Obadiah" or "The prophesy of Obadiah"

# The Lord Yahweh says this concerning Edom

This tells the reader that the entire book is a message about Edom.

# Yahweh

This is the name of God that he revealed to his people in the Old Testament. See the translationWord page about Yahweh concerning how to translate this.

# an ambassador has been sent

This can be stated in active form. AT: "Yahweh has sent an ambassador" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-activepassive]])

# Rise up

"Stand up." This phrase is used to tell people to get ready.

# rise up against her

Here "her" refers to Edom. This is a metonym for the people of Edom, so it could also be translated as "them." (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metonymy]])

# Behold, I will make you

Beginning in verse 2, Obadiah records the words that Yahweh speaks directly to Edom.

# Behold

This alerts the reader to pay special attention to what follows. AT: "Look" or "Pay attention to what I am about to tell you"

# I will make you small among the nations, you will be greatly despised

These two phrases mean similar things and are used to emphasize that Edom will lose its important status. (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-parallelism]])

# I will make you small among the nations

Something that is insignificant is spoken of as if it is of small size, and can easily be overlooked. AT: "I will make you insignificant among the nations" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metaphor]])

# you will be greatly despised

This can be stated in active form. AT: "the people of other nations will hate you" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-activepassive]])

# translationWords

* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/vision]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/names/obadiah]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/lordyahweh]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/yahweh]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/names/edom]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/ambassador]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/send]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/nation]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/raise]]