# General Information:

Obadiah's vision concerning Edom continues.

# The pride of your heart has deceived you

The "heart" was associated with emotions. The Edomites' pride caused them to be deceived about their security. AT: "Your pride has deceived you" or "Your pride causes you think you are safe" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metonymy]])

# in the clefts of the rock

"in the cracks in the rock." This here has the sense of a place that is protected because it is surrounded by rocks.

# in your lofty home

"in your home that was built in a high place"

# say in your heart

Here "in your heart" is an idiom that means "to yourself." AT: "say to yourselves" or "think" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-idiom]])

# Who will bring me down to the ground?

This question expresses that the Edomites were proud and felt safe. AT: "No one can bring me down to the ground." or "I am safe from all attackers." (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-rquestion]])

# Though you soar high like the eagle and though your nest is set among the stars

Both of these exaggerations say that Edom is built in a very high place by saying it is built much higher than possible. AT: "And I tell you that even if you had wings and could fly higher than eagles fly, and if you could make your homes among the stars" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-hyperbole]] and [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-parallelism]])

# I will bring you down from there

Pride is associated with height while humility is associated with being low. To "bring down" is an idiom that means to humble someone. AT: "I will humble you" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-idiom]])

# translationWords

* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/proud]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/heart]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/deceive]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/eagle]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/yahweh]]