# General Information:

Yahweh continues giving Obadiah his message to Edom.

# If thieves came to you ... would they not steal only as much as they needed?

This question is used to imply that Yahweh's punishment of Edom would be worse than what thieves would do when they steal. This can be stated explicitly. AT: "If thieves came to you ... they would only steal as much as they needed, but I will take everything from you!" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-rquestion]] and [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-explicit]])

# If thieves came to you, if robbers came by night

These two phrases mean the same thing and are used to emphasize people who steal. They can be combined. AT: "When thieves break into someone's house during the night" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-hendiadys]])

# if robbers came by night

"or if robbers came during the night"

# robbers

people who steal things from other people

# how you will be ruined!

Yahweh adds this phrase in the middle of another sentence to express that the punishment of Edom is shocking. AT: "you are completely destroyed!"

# If grape gatherers came to you, would they not leave the gleanings?

This question is used to imply that Yahweh's punishment of Edom would be more thorough than what grape gatherers would do when they harvest grapes. This can be stated explicitly. AT: "If grape gatherers came to you, they would leave some grapes, but I will take everything from you!" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-rquestion]] and [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-explicit]])

# How Esau has been ransacked, his hidden treasures will be searched out

This can be stated in active form. AT: "Ah, enemies have stolen everything from Esau; they have found his hidden treasure" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-activepassive]])

# Esau

The people of Edom were the descendants of Esau. Therefore, in this book "Edom" and "Esau" refer to the same group of people.

# has been ransacked

This means the enemies have search through Esau's things, taken everything valuable, and left everything else in a mess or damaged.

# translationWords

* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/thief]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/grape]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/glean]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/names/esau]]