# General Information:

Yahweh continues giving Obadiah his message to Edom.

# All the men of your alliance ... The men who were at peace with you ... They who eat your bread

All three of these phrases refer to Edom's allies.

# your alliance

The word "your" refers to the nation of Edom.

# will send you on your way to the border

"will send you out of their land." The people of Edom will try to take refuge in the land of their allies, but their allies will not let the people of Edom stay in their land.

# There is no understanding in him.

Possible meanings are 1) the allies say this about Edom. AT: "They say, 'Edom does not understand anything.'" or 2) this is a statement about the betrayal of the allies. AT: "No one can understand why they did this."

# Will I not on that day," says Yahweh, "destroy ... mountain of Esau?

Yahweh uses this question to emphasize the certainty of the destruction of Edom. AT: "'On that day,' says Yahweh, 'I surely will destroy ... mountain of Esau." (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-rquestion]])

# the mountain of Esau

Most of the land of Esau was mountains, so this is one way of referring to the land of Edom.

# Your mighty men will be dismayed

"Your strong warriors will be afraid"

# Teman

This is the name of a region in the land of Edom. (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/translate-names]])

# so that every man may be cut off from the mountain of Esau by slaughter

This can be stated in active form. AT: "so that there will be no more people in the mountains of Esau because enemies killed them" or "so that they will slaughter every person in the mountain of Esau" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-activepassive]])

# be cut off

"be destroyed"

# translationWords

* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/peace]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/deceive]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/bread]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/yahweh]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/wise]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/names/edom]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/names/esau]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/mighty]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/cutoff]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/slaughter]]