# General Information:

Yahweh continues giving Obadiah his message to Edom.

# your brother Jacob

Here "Jacob" represents his descendants. Because Jacob was the brother of Esau, the people of Edom are spoken of as if they were the brothers of the descendants of Jacob. AT: "your relatives who are the descendants of Jacob" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metonymy]])

# you will be covered with shame

To be covered with something is an idiom for fully experiencing it. AT: "you will be completely ashamed" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-idiom]])

# will be cut off forever

This can be stated in active form. AT: "will never exist again" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-activepassive]])

# stood aloof

"watched and did nothing to help"

# strangers

people from other nations

# his wealth

The word "his" refers to "Jacob," which is another way of referring to the people of Israel.

# cast lots for Jerusalem

This phrase means "they cast lots to decide who would get the valuable things that they took from Jerusalem." (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-explicit]])

# you were like one of them

"it was as though you were one of these strangers and foreigners." This implies that they did not help the Israelites. This can be made explicit. AT: "you were like one of the enemies and did not help Israel" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-explicit]])

# translationWords

* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/brother]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/jacob]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/shame]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/cutoff]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/forever]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/foreigner]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/gate]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/lots]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/jerusalem]]