# General Information:

Yahweh concludes his message to Edom in verse 15. In verses 16-21, Yahweh speaks through Obadiah to tell the people of Judah that they will possess the land of Edom.

# For the day of Yahweh is near ... will return on your own head

Bible experts are not certain whether verse 15 goes with verse 14 as the end of the previous section, or goes with verse 16 as the beginning of the new section.

# For the day of Yahweh is near upon all the nations

"Soon the time will come when Yahweh will show all the nations that he is Lord"

# As you have done, it will be done to you

This can be stated in active form. AT: "I will do to you the same things that you did to others" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-activepassive]])

# your deeds will return on your own head

Here "return on your own head" means they will be punished for those things. AT: "you will suffer the consequences for the things you have done" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-idiom]])

# For as you

The word "you" is plural and probably refers to the people of Judah.

# as you have drunk

The punishment that Judah received from the enemy nations is spoken of as if a bitter liquid that they drank. AT: "as you have drunk suffering" or "as I have punished you" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metaphor]])

# my holy mountain

This was a way of referring to Jerusalem.

# so will all the nations drink continually

Yahweh's punishment of the other nations is spoken of as if it was a bitter liquid that he will cause them to drink continually. AT: "so all the nations will drink in suffering continually" or "so I will punish all of the nations without stopping" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metaphor]])

# They will drink and swallow and it will be as though they had never existed

Yahweh continues the metaphor of drinking punishment. Here "swallow" expresses that they will fully experience the punishment, with the result that it will destroy them completely. AT: "They will drink in my punishment fully until they cease to exist" or "I will continue to punish them fully until I completely destroy them" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metaphor]] and [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-explicit]])

# translationWords

* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/dayofthelord]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/nation]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/works]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/head]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/holy]]