# General Information:

In verses 16-21, Yahweh speaks through Obadiah to tell the people of Judah that they will possess the land of Edom.

# those that escape

These are the people of Jerusalem that are still alive after Yahweh has finished punishing the city. This can be made explicit. AT: "some of the Israelites who escape the punishment of Yahweh" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-explicit]])

# it will be holy

The word "it" refers to "mount Zion."

# house of Jacob will be a fire ... Joseph a flame

Yahweh speaks of the houses of Jacob and Joseph as if they were fire because they will destroy Esau like a fire that quickly and completely burns up straw. (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metaphor]])

# the house of Jacob

The word "house" is a metonym for the family that lives in the house. In this case it refers to Jacob's descendants. AT: "descendants of Jacob" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metonymy]])

# stubble

The dry pieces of plants that are left in the ground after the stalks have been cut.

# and they

The word "they" refers to the house of Jacob and the house of Joseph.

# will burn them

The word "them" refers to the descendants of Esau, who are the nation of Edom.

# There will be no survivors to the house of Esau

"Not one person of the house of Esau will survive"

# the house of Esau

The word "house" is a metonym for the family that lives in the house. In this case it refers to Esau's descendants. AT: "descendants of Esau" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metonymy]])

# for Yahweh has spoken it

This is an oath formula that means it will certainly happen because Yahweh said it.

# translationWords

* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/zion]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/holy]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/house]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/names/jacob]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/possess]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/fire]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/names/josephot]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/names/esau]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/consume]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/yahweh]]