# General Information:

In verses 16-21, Yahweh speaks through Obadiah to tell the people of Judah that they will possess the land of Edom.

# The exiles of this host of the people of Israel

Possible meanings are 1) this refers to the exiles taken to Assyria from the northern kingdom of Israel or 2) this refers to the people of Judah who lived outside of Jerusalem and were taken to exile in Babylon.

# host

a very large group of people

# as far as Zarephath

Zarephath was a Phoenician city north of Israel on the coast of the Mediterranean between Tyre and Sidon. At: "as far north as Zarephath" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/translate-names]])

# The exiles of Jerusalem

This group is contrasted with either the Israelites from the northern kingdom, or with the people of Judah who lived outside of Jerusalem.

# Sepharad

This is the name of a place whose location is unknown. Some experts suggest it refers to the city of Sardis in the region of Lydia. (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/translate-names]])

# Deliverers will go up to Mount Zion to rule over the hill country of Esau

"Deliverers will go up to Jerusalem and rule over Edom from there"

# Deliverers

Possible meanings are 1) this refers to various Israelite military leaders whom God will use to defeat the nation of Edom or 2) the text should read "Those who will be delivered" and refers to the returning Jewish exiles.

# the kingdom will belong to Yahweh

This phrase emphasizes that Yahweh will personally rule over the kingdom. AT: "Yahweh will be their king"

# translationWords

* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/exile]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/israel]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/canaan]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/jerusalem]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/negev]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/deliverer]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/zion]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/ruler]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/esau]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/kingdom]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/yahweh]]