# Has Yahweh as much delight in burnt offerings and sacrifices, as in obeying the voice of Yahweh?

Samuel asks this question to emphasize that obedience is much more important than sacrifice. This can be translated as a statement. AT: "Yahweh does not delight in burnt offerings and sacrifices as much as in obeying his voice!" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-rquestion]])

# the voice of Yahweh

Here "voice" refers to the commands that Yahweh spoke. AT: "the things that Yahweh commanded" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metonymy]])

# Obedience is better than sacrifice

God wanted Saul's complete obedience in the destruction of the Amalekites. Nothing in the land was fit for sacrifice.

# better than the fat of rams

"better than to sacrifice the fat of rams as a burnt offering"

# rebellion is like the sin of divination

The abstract noun "rebellion" can be translated with a verb. AT: "to rebel is as sinful as practicing divination" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-abstractnouns]])

# stubbornness is like wickedness and iniquity

The abstract noun "stubbornness" can be translated with a verb and the abstract noun "wickedness" can be translated as an adjective. AT: "being stubborn is as bad as doing wicked things and practicing iniquity" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-abstractnouns]])

# the word of Yahweh

"Yahweh's message" or "Yahweh's command"

# rejected you from being king

"decided that you will no longer be king"

# translationWords

* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/burntoffering]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/rebel]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/divination]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/iniquity]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/reject]]