# They will say to you, "Consult with the those who speak with the dead and with spirits," the ones who chirp and mutter incantations. But should a people not consult their God? Should they consult the dead on behalf of the living? To the law and to the testimony!

Other possible meanings are 1) "They will say to you, 'Consult with the mediums and spiritists, those who chirp and mutter incantations. Should a people not consult their gods? They should consult the dead on behalf of the living for teaching and for testimony.'" or 2) "When they say to you, 'Consult with the mediums and spiritists, those who chirp and mutter incantations,' should a people not consult their God? Should they consult the dead on behalf of the living? To the law and to the testimony!"

# To the law and to the testimony

Possible meanings are 1) "Pay attention to God's instructions and teaching" or 2) "Then you must remember the teaching and testimony I gave." ([Isaiah 8:16](../08/16.md)).

# the law

This is the same word translated "official record" in [Isaiah 8:16](../08/16.md).

# the testimony

See how you translated this in [Isaiah 8:16](../08/16.md).

# If they do not say such things

"If they do not speak of the law and the testimony"

# it is because they have no light of dawn

Isaiah speaks of people who do not know God as if they were people walking in darkness without any light. Alternate translation: "it is because they are like a person lost in the dark" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metaphor]])

