# Connecting Statement:

Jesus concludes the parable about the servants and the talents. (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-parables]] and [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/translate-bmoney]])

# take away the talent

The master is speaking to other servants.

# talent

A "talent" was worth twenty years' wages. Avoid translating this into modern money. See how you translated this in [Matthew 25:15](./14.md). (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/translate-bmoney]])

# who possesses

It is implied that the person who possesses something also uses it wisely. AT: "who uses well what he has" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-explicit]])

# more will be given

This can be stated in active form. AT: "God will give more" or "I will give more" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-activepassive]])

# even more abundantly

"even much more"

# from anyone who does not possess anything

It is implied that the person does possess something but he does not use it wisely. AT: "from anyone does not use well what he has" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-explicit]])

# will be taken away

This can be stated in active form. AT: "God will take away" or "I will take away" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-activepassive]])

# the outer darkness

Here "outer darkness" is a metonym for the place where God sends those who reject them. This is a place that is completely separated from God forever. See how you translated this in [Matthew 8:12](../08/11.md). AT: "the dark place away from God" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metonymy]])

# weeping and the grinding of teeth

"Grinding of teeth" is symbolic action, representing extreme sadness and suffering. AT: "weeping and expressing their extreme suffering" See how you translated this in [Matthew 8:12](../08/11.md). (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/translate-symaction]])

# translationWords

* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/servant]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/possess]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/darkness]]
