# we heard about it in Ephrathah

The word "it" probably refers to where God's sacred chest was. The phrase "in Ephrathah" probably refers to where they were when they heard about it. This can be stated clearly. AT: "we who were in Ephrathah heard about where the sacred chest was" or "we in Ephrathah heard that the holy box was in Jaar" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-explicit]])

# fields of Jaar

Jaar is probably another name for the city of Kiriath Jearim. This probably refers to the fields surrounding the city. (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/translate-names]])

# we will worship at his footstool

Worshiping God at the covenant box is spoken of as bowing at the feet of the king who is sitting on his throne. This communicates humility and submission to God. AT: "we will go to God's covenant box and worship him as king" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metaphor]])

# Arise, Yahweh, to your resting place

The verb "come" can be stated clearly. "Arise, Yahweh, and come to your resting place" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-explicit]])

# your resting place

The place God chose for people to worship him is spoken of as if it were a place where he rests or lives eternally. AT: "the place where you stay" or "your tabernacle" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metaphor]])

# you and the ark of your strength!

Possible meanings are 1) "come to the ark of your strength" or 2) "come, and make the ark of your strength come." (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-ellipsis]])

# the ark of your strength

"the ark that shows your great power"

# translationWords

* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/names/bethlehem]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/god]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/tabernacle]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/worship]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/footstool]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/raise]]