# The thin heads

The words "of grain" are understood. AT: "The thin heads of grain" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-ellipsis]])

# swallowed up

"ate." Pharaoh is dreaming that unhealthy corn could eat healthy corn just like a person eats food.

# wholesome and full heads

"healthy and good heads." See how you translated a similar phrase in [Genesis 41:5](./04.md).

# woke up

"awakened"

# behold

The word "behold" here shows that Pharaoh was surprised by what he had seen.

# it was a dream

"he had been dreaming"

# It came about

This phrase is used here to mark the beginning of a new part of the story. If your language has a way for doing this, you could consider using it here. (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/writing-newevent]])

# his spirit was troubled

Here the word "spirit" refers to his inner being or his emotions. AT: "he was troubled in his inner being" or "he was troubled" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-synecdoche]])

# He sent and called

It is understood that he sent servants. AT: "He sent his servants to call" or "He sent his servants to summon" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-ellipsis]])

# all the magicians and wise men of Egypt

Ancient kings and rulers used magicians and wise men as advisers.

# translationWords

* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/names/pharaoh]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/dream]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/spirit]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/send]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/call]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/magic]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/wise]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/names/egypt]]