# chief cupbearer

The most important person who brings drinks to the king. See how you translated this in [Genesis 40:2](../40/01.md).

# Today I am thinking about my offenses

The word "Today" is used for emphasis. His "offenses" are that he should have told Pharaoh something much earlier but he did not. AT: "I just realized that I forgot to tell you something"

# Pharaoh was angry

The cupbearer is referring to Pharaoh in third person. This is a common way for someone with less power to speak to someone with greater power. AT: "You, Pharaoh, were angry" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-123person]])

# with his servants

Here "his" refers to Pharaoh. Here "servants" refers to the cupbearer and the chief baker. AT: "with us, your servants" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-123person]])

# put me in custody in the house of the captain of the guard, the chief baker and me

"put the chief baker and me in the prison where the captain of the guard was in charge." Here "house" refers to the prison.

# the captain of the guard

The soldier in charge of the royal guards. See how you translated this in [Genesis 40:2-3](../40/01.md).

# the chief baker

The most important person who made food for the king. See how you translated this in [Genesis 40:2-3](../40/01.md).

# We dreamed a dream the same night, he and I

"One night we both had dreams"

# We dreamed

Here "We" refers to the chief cupbearer and the chief baker. (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-exclusive]])

# We dreamed each man according to the interpretation of his dream

"Our dreams had different meanings"