# General Information:

Pharaoh continues telling Joseph his dreams.

# I looked in my dream

This begins Pharaoh's next dream after he woke up and went back to sleep. AT: "Then I dreamed again" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-explicit]])

# behold, seven heads

Pharaoh uses the word "Behold" to make Joseph pay attention to surprising information.

# seven heads

The words "of grain" are understood. AT: "seven heads of grain" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-ellipsis]])

# came up upon one stalk

"grew up on one stem." The stalk is the thick or tall part of a plant. See how you translated a similar phrase in [Genesis 41:5](./04.md).

# Behold, seven more heads

Pharaoh uses the word "Behold" to make Joseph pay attention to surprising information.

# withered

dead and dried

# the east wind

Wind from the east blew in from the desert. The heat of the east wind was often very destructive to crops.

# sprang up

"grew up" or "developed"

# The thin heads

The words "of grain" are understood. See how you translated this in [Genesis 41:7](./07.md). AT: "The thin heads of grain" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-ellipsis]])

# swallowed up

"ate." Pharaoh is dreaming that unhealthy corn could eat healthy corn just like a person eats food. See how you translated a similar phrase in [Genesis 41:7](./07.md).

# there was none that could

"there was not a single one that could" or "none of them could"

# translationWords

* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/dream]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/good]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/magic]]