# I am Pharaoh, and apart from you

Pharaoh is emphasizing his authority. AT: "As Pharaoh, I command that apart from you"

# apart from you, no man will lift his hand or his foot in all the land of Egypt

Here "hand" and "foot" stand for a person's actions. AT: "no person in Egypt will do anything without your permission" or "every person in Egypt must ask your permission before they do anything" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metonymy]])

# no man

Here "man" refers to any person in general, whether male or female. (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-gendernotations]])

# Zaphenath-Paneah

Translators may add the following footnote: The name Zaphenath-Paneah means "a revealer of secrets." (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/translate-names]])

# He gave him Asenath, the daughter of Potiphera priest of On, as a wife

Priests in Egypt were the highest and most privileged caste. This marriage signifies Joseph's place of honor and privilege. (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/translate-symaction]])

# gave him Asenath

"Asenath" is the name of the woman whom Pharaoh gave to Joseph as his wife. (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/translate-names]])

# daughter of Potiphera

"Potiphera" is the father of Asenath. (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/translate-names]])

# priest of On

On is a city, also called Heliopolis, which was "the City of the Sun" and the center of worship of the sun god Ra. (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/translate-names]])

# Joseph went out over the land of Egypt

Joseph traveled over the land to supervise the preparations for the coming drought.