# their grain offering

This refers to the grain offerings that are required to accompany each of the animals when they are sacrificed. AT: "the grain offerings that are offered with them" or "the grain offerings that accompany them" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-possession]])

# mixed with oil

This can be stated in active form. AT: "which you have mixed with oil" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-activepassive]])

# three-tenths of an ephah

The phrase "of fine flour mixed with oil" is understood from the previous phrase and can be repeated. "Three-tenths" means three parts out of ten equal parts. This can be written in modern measurements. AT: "six liters of fine flour mixed with oil" or "three-tenths of an ephah (which is about six liters)" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/translate-fraction]] and [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/translate-bvolume]])

# two-tenths

The phrase "of an ephah of fine flour mixed with oil" is understood from earlier in the sentence. "Two tenths" means two parts out of ten equal parts. This can be written in modern measurements. AT: "four and a half liters of fine flour mixed with oil" or "two-tenths of an ephah (which is about 4.5 liters)" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-ellipsis]] and [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/translate-fraction]] and [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/translate-bvolume]])

# one-tenth

The phrase "of an ephah of fine flour mixed with oil" is understood from earlier in the sentence. "One-tenth" means one part out of ten equal parts. This can be written in modern measurements. AT: "2 liters of fine flour mixed with oil" or "a tenth of an ephah (which is about 2 liters)" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/translate-fraction]] and [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/translate-bvolume]])

# to make atonement

The word "atonement" can be expressed with the verb "atone." AT: "to atone" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-abstractnouns]])

# translationWords

* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/grainoffering]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/oil]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/goat]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/sinoffering]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/atonement]]