# fine flour mixed with oil

This can be stated in active form. AT: "fine flour which you have mixed with oil" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-activepassive]])

# three-tenths of an ephah

"Three-tenths" means three parts out of ten equal parts. This can be written in modern measurements. AT: "six liters" or "three-tenths of an ephah (which is about six liters)" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/translate-fraction]] and [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/translate-bvolume]])

# two-tenths

The words "of an ephah" are understood from earlier in the verse. They can be repeated here. "Two-tenths" means two parts out of ten equal parts. This can be written in modern measurements. AT: "four and a half liters" or "two-tenths of an ephah (which is about 4.5 liters)" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-ellipsis]] and [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/translate-fraction]] and [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/translate-bvolume]])

# a tenth of an ephah

"A tenth" means one part out of ten equal parts. This can be written in modern measurements. AT: "2 liters" or "a tenth of an ephah (which is about 2 liters)" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/translate-fraction]] and [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/translate-bvolume]])

# of atonement

The word "atonement" can be expressed with the verb "atone." AT: "that atones for you" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-abstractnouns]])

# its grain offering, and their drink offerings

The grain offering was to be offered with the burnt offering. The drink offerings were to be offered with both the sin offering and the burnt offering. AT: "along with the grain offering and the drink offerings that accompany them" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-possession]])

# translationWords

* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/grainoffering]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/oil]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/goat]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/sinoffering]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/atonement]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/drinkoffering]]