# mixed with oil

This can be stated in active form. AT: "which you have mixed with oil" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-activepassive]])

# three-tenths of an ephah

The phrase "of fine flour mixed with oil" is understood from earlier in the sentence and can be repeated. "Three-tenths" means three parts out of ten equal parts. This can be written in modern measurements. AT: "six liters of fine flour mixed with oil" or "three-tenths of an ephah (which is about six liters)" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/translate-fraction]] and [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/translate-bvolume]])

# thirteen bulls ... fourteen lambs

"13 bulls ... 14 lambs" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/translate-numbers]])

# two-tenths

The phrase "of an ephah of fine flour" is understood from earlier in the sentence. "Two-tenths" means two parts out of ten equal parts. This can be written in modern measurements. AT: "four and a half liters of fine flour" or "two-tenths of an ephah (which is about 4.5 liters)" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-ellipsis]] and [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/translate-fraction]] and [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/translate-bvolume]])

# a tenth of an ephah

The phrase "of fine flour" is understood from earlier in the sentence.  "A tenth" means one part out of ten equal parts. This can be written in modern measurements. AT: "2 liters of fine flour" or "a tenth of an ephah (which is about 2 liters)" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/translate-fraction]] and [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/translate-bvolume]])

# its grain offering, and the drink offering with it

The grain offering and drink offering accompany the regular burnt offering.

# translationWords

* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/grainoffering]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/oil]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/sinoffering]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/drinkoffering]]