# General Information:

Jesus compares the person who obeys his teaching to a man who builds a house on rock where it will be safe from floods. (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-simile]])

# Lord, Lord

The repetition of these words indicates that they regularly called Jesus "Lord."

# Every person who comes to me ... I will tell you what he is like

It may be clearer to change the order of this sentence. AT: "I will tell you what every person is like who comes to me and hears my words and obeys them"

# built the house's foundation on solid rock

"dug the foundation of the house deep enough to reach a foundation of solid rock." Some cultures may not be familiar with building on bedrock, and may need to use another image for a stable foundation. (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-explicit]])

# foundation

the part of a house that connects it to the ground. People in Jesus' time dug down into the ground to the solid rock and then began to build on the rock. That solid rock was the foundation.

# solid rock

"bedrock." This is the very large, hard rock that is deep under the soil.

# torrent of water

"fast-moving water" or "river"

# flowed against

"crashed against"

# shake it

Possible meanings are 1) "cause it to shake" or 2) "destroy it."

# because it had been well built

This can be stated in active form. AT: "because the man had built it well" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-activepassive]])

# translationWords

* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/lord]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/obey]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/word]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/foundation]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/flood]]