# General Information:

Parallelism is common in Hebrew poetry. (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/writing-poetry]] and [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-parallelism]])

# Why are the nations in turmoil, and why do the peoples make plots that will fail?

These questions are used to show surprise that the people are doing things that are so wrong and foolish. AT: "The nations are in turmoil and the peoples are making plots that will fail." (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-rquestion]])

# are the nations in turmoil

This probably means that the nations were making a noisy and angry commotion.

# the nations

This represents either the leaders or the people of the nations. (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metonymy]])

# plots that will fail

These are probably plots against God and his people.

# The kings of the earth take their stand together ... the rulers conspire together

These two clauses have similar meanings. (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-parallelism]])

# take their stand together ... conspire together

These phrases mean the same thing, implying that the leaders stand together in order to fight against Yahweh and his Messiah. This can be stated explicitly. AT: "gather to fight ... plan together to revolt" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-explicit]])

# Let us tear off the shackles ... throw off their chains

The people of other nations speak of Yahweh and the Messiah's rule over them as if it were shackles and chains. AT: "We should free ourselves from their control; we should not let them rule over us any longer" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metaphor]])

# translationWords

* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/nation]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/peoplegroup]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/king]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/earth]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/ruler]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/yahweh]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/christ]]