# Connecting Statement:

This continues the decree that King Artaxerxes gave to Ezra.

# the Province Beyond the River

This is the name of the province that was west of the Euphrates River. It was across the river from the city of Susa. See how you translated it in [Esra 4:10](../04/09.md). (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/translate-names]])

# that anything that Ezra asks from you should be given in full

This can be expressed in active form. "Give Ezra in full anything he asks of you" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-activepassive]])

# should be given in full

The phrase "in full" here represents whatever quantity necessary to do the work. AT: "should be given as much as he needs" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-explicit]])

# one hundred silver talents

"100 talents of silver." You may convert this to a modern measure. AT: "3,300 kilograms of silver" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/translate-numbers]] and [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/translate-bweight]])

# one hundred cors of grain

You may convert this to a modern measure. AT: "22,000 liters of grain" or "twenty thousand liters of grain" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/translate-bvolume]] and [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/translate-numbers]])

# one hundred baths of oil

You may convert this to a modern measure. AT: 2,200 liters of oil" or "two thousand liters of oil" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/translate-bvolume]] and [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/translate-numbers]])

# his house

This refers to God's temple.

# For why should his wrath come upon the kingdom of me and my sons?

The king uses this question to say that he does not want God's wrath to come upon them. The implied information is that if they do not do give Ezra what he needs, then God will punish the kingdom. AT: "For we do not want God's wrath to come upon the the kingdom of me and my sons." or "For if you do not do these things, God's wrath will come upon the kingdom of me and my sons." (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-rquestion]])

# For why should his wrath come upon the kingdom of me and my sons

God's wrath represents God punishing them. AT: "For why should God punish the kingdom of me and my sons" or "For if you do not do these things, God will punish the kingdom of me and my sons" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metonymy]])

# translationWords

* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/king]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/artaxerxes]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/decree]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/ezra]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/wine]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/god]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/heaven]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/wrath]]