# a man sleeps with

This is a polite way of saying that he had sex with his sister. Some languages use more direct phrases such as "a man had sex with." (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-euphemism]])

# either his father's daughter or his mother's daughter

This means a man cannot sleep with his sister, even if she has a different mother or father. The full meaning of this statement can be made explicit. AT: "whether it is his full sister or half-sister" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-explicit]])

# must be cut off from

A person being excluded from his community is spoken of as if he had been cut off from his people, as one would cut a piece of cloth or cut a branch from a tree. This can be translated in active form. See how you translated this idea in [Leviticus 7:20](../07/19.md). AT: "that person may no longer live among his people" or "you must separate that person from his people" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metaphor]] and [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-activepassive]])

# He must carry his guilt

This phrase means the man is responsibile for his sin. AT: "He is responsible for his sin" or "You must punish him" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-idiom]])

# menstrual period

the time when a woman bleeds from her womb

# he has uncovered the flow of her blood, the source of her blood

This phrase compares having sex with a woman during her menstrual period to removing the cover off of something that should remain hidden. The fact that this was a shameful thing to do can be stated clearly. AT: "he has done a shameful thing by by uncovering the flow of her blood" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metaphor]] and [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-explicit]])

# Both the man and woman must be cut off

It can be stated clearly why this must be done. AT: "Because they have done this shameful thing, both the man and woman must be cut off" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-explicit]])