# the word of Yahweh came

This idiom is used to introduce a special message from God. See how you translated this in [Haggai 1:1](../01/01.md). AT: "Yahweh gave a message" or "Yawheh spoke this message" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-idiom]])

# Haggai ... Zerubbabel

These are names of men. See how you translated this in [Haggai 1:1](../01/01.md). (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/translate-names]])

# on the twenty-fourth day of the month

You may need to make explicit which month is spoken of. AT: "on the twenty-fourth day of the ninth month" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/translate-hebrewmonths]] and [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/translate-ordinal]] and [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-ellipsis]])

# I will shake the heavens and the earth

The words "I will shake the earth" could be translated as "I will cause an earthquake." Yahweh speaks of the heavens as if they also were solid objects that he could shake. See how these ideas are translated in [Haggai 2:6](./06.md).(See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metaphor]])

# shake

Use the verb you usually use for pushing trees back and forth to get fruit or other objects to fall from them. See how you translated this in [Haggai 2:6](./06.md).

# the heavens and the earth

This is a merism for "the whole universe" or "everything that exists." (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-merism]])

# I will overthrow the throne of kingdoms

The throne is a metonym for the person sitting on the throne. AT: "I will take kings off of their thrones" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metonymy]])

# the throne of kingdoms

Here "throne" is a metonym for the king who sits on it. AT: "government ruled by kings" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metonymy]])

# I will ... destroy the strength of the kingdoms of the nations

You may need to make explicit that "the nations" are Israel's enemies. AT: "I will make it so the kingdoms of the nations that are Israel's enemies are no longer strong" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-explicit]])

# each one because of his brother's sword

The sword here is a metonym for violent death. AT: "each one because his brother has killed him" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metonymy]])

# translationWords

* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/wordofgod]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/biblicaltimeday]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/governor]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/judah]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/heaven]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/earth]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/kingdom]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/nation]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/chariot]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/horse]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/brother]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/sword]]