# General Information:

Yahweh continues speaking to Ezekiel. He tells Ezekiel to take a brick and dirt and pieces of wood and act as if he were Yahweh destroying the city of Jerusalem.

# son of man

"son of a human being" or "son of humanity." God calls Ezekiel this to emphasize that Ezekiel is only a human being. God is eternal and powerful, but humans are not. See how you translated this in [Ezekiel 2:1](../02/01.md). AT: "mortal person" or "human"

# carve the city of Jerusalem

You may need to make explicit that Ezekiel is to carve a picture. AT: "carve a picture of the city of Jerusalem" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-explicit]])

# lay siege against it

"surround the city in order to capture it"

# build forts against it

"build strong walls against it." The walls would keep people from leaving the city.

# Raise up an assault ramp against it

"Build a ramp outside of it for the enemies to get inside." Jerusalem had a wall around it to protect the people inside. The enemies could only get inside if they had a ramp to climb up over the wall.

# Place battering rams all around it

"Set around it huge poles people would use to break down the gates and get inside." "Battering rams" are large trees or poles that many men in an army would pick up and hit against a wall or door so they could break it down and get inside.

# set your face against it

This is a command to stare at the model of the city as a symbol of punishing the city. AT: "stare at the city" or "stare at the city so that it will be harmed" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/translate-symaction]])

# set your face

Here "face" is a metonym for attention or gaze, and "set your face" refers to literally staring at something. (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metonymy]])

# the house of Israel

The word "house" is a metonym for the family that lives in the house, in this case the Israelites, the descendants of Jacob over many years. See how you translated this in [Ezekiel 3:1](../03/01.md). AT: "the Israelites" or "the Israelite people group" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metonymy]])

# translationWords

* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/sonofman]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/names/jerusalem]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/siege]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/face]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/sign]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/house]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/israel]]