# General Information:

The Spirit continues speaking to Ezekiel.

# these days

the days Ezekiel lies down on his left side to illustrate the siege of the kingdom of Israel

# you will carry the sin

Possible meanings are 1) "you will be guilty of the sin" or 2) "you will be punished for the sin." Either of these meanings will be demonstrated symbolically by Ezekiel as noted in the UDB. See how you translated these words in [Ezekiel 4:4](./04.md).

# the house of Judah

The word "house" is a metonym for the family that lives in the house, in this case the descendants of Judah over many years. See how you translated these words in [Ezekiel 3:1](../03/01.md). AT: "the Judah people group" or "the people of Judah" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metonymy]])

# I am assigning to you one day for each year

"I will make you do this one day for each year that I will punish them"

# Set your face toward Jerusalem that is under siege

This is a command to stare at the model of Jerusalem as a symbol of punishing Jerusalem. See how you translated a similar phrase in [Ezekiel 4:3](./01.md). AT: "Stare at Jerusalem that is under siege" or "Stare at Jerusalem that is under siege, so that it will be harmed" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/translate-symaction]])

# Set your face

Here "face" is a metonym for attention or gaze. "Set your face" refers to literally staring at something. (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metonymy]])

# prophesy against it

"prophesy about the bad things that will happen to Jerusalem"

# For behold

"Look" or "Listen" or "Pay attention to what I am about to tell you"

# I am placing bonds on you

Bonds are ropes or chains that keep a person from moving. It is not clear whether the word "bonds" is a metaphor for something Yahweh does that is as if he had bound Ezekiel or if he is using literal, physical ropes. (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metaphor]])

# translationWords

* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/names/kingdomofjudah]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/face]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/names/jerusalem]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/siege]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/prophet]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/bond]]