# General Information:

The author continues the use of metaphors to express how the Lord opposed Judah.

# he has cut off every horn of Israel

This speaks of the Lord taking away Israel's strength as if he were cutting off its horns. The word "horn" refers to an animal horn, not a musical instrument. AT: "he has taken away all of Israel's strength" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metaphor]])

# withdrawn his right hand from before the enemy

Here the Lord's protection is represented by his "right hand." AT: "stopped protecting us from our enemies" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metonymy]])

# He has burned up Jacob like a blazing fire that devours everything around it

This speaks of how the Lord has destroyed Jacob as if a fire has completely burned it. AT: "He has destroyed Jacob like a blazing fire destroys everything"

# Jacob

Here "Jacob" refers to the places where his descendants lived. AT: "Israel" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metonymy]])

# Like an enemy he has bent his bow toward us, with his right is ready to shoot

A soldier has to bend his bow in order to shoot an arrow from it. This speaks of the Lord preparing to attack Israel as if he were an enemy about to shoot them with a bow and arrow. AT: "He has prepared to kill us, like an enemy who has made his bow ready to shoot us" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-simile]])

# in the tent of the daughter of Zion

The "daughter of Zion" is a poetic name for Jerusalem, which is spoken of here as if it were a woman. The phrase "tent of the daughter of Zion" speaks of Jerusalem as a "tent" emphasizing that it is the home of those who live there. AT: "who live in Jerusalem" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-personification]] and [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metaphor]])

# he has poured out his wrath like fire

This speaks of the Lord's wrath as if it were a liquid that he were pouring out on the people. His wrath is also compared to a "fire" to emphasize how destructive it is. AT: "in his anger he has destroyed everything like a blazing fire" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metaphor]])