# swallowed up

This speaks of the Lord completely destroying Israel as if he were animal who ate them. See how you translated this in [Lamentations 2:2](./01.md). AT: "completely destroyed" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metaphor]])

# her palaces ... her strongholds

Israel is spoken of as if it were female.

# He has increased mourning and lamentation within the daughter of Judah

The words "mourning" and "lamentation" can be expressed as verbs. AT: "He has caused more and more people within the daughter of Judah to mourn and lament" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-abstractnouns]])

# daughter of Judah

This is a poetic name for Jerusalem, which is spoken of here as if it were a woman. AT: "Judah" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-personification]])

# He has attacked his tabernacle like a garden hut

This speaks of the tabernacle being easily destroyed, as if it were a garden hut. The Lord caused Israel's enemies to destroy it. He did not destroy it himself. AT: "He has caused their enemies to attack his tabernacle as easily as if it were a garden hut" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-simile]] and [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metonymy]])

# a garden hut

a very small building for holding farming tools or for sheltering someone who is guarding a garden

# He has destroyed the place of the solemn assembly

The Lord caused Israel's enemies to destroy it. He did not destroy it himself. AT: "He has caused the place of the solemn assembly to be destroyed" or "He has caused their enemies to destroy the place of the solemn assembly" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metonymy]])

# caused both solemn assembly and Sabbath to be forgotten in Zion

This can be stated in active form. AT: "caused the people in Zion to forget both solemn assembly and Sabbath" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-activepassive]])

# in the indignation of his anger

"because he was extremely angry with them"

# translationWords

* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/palace]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/mourn]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/lament]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/tabernacle]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/assembly]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/yahweh]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/sabbath]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/king]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/priest]]