# General Information:

The author shifts from describing Jerusalem to describing his own experience.

# My eyes have failed from their tears

This is an idiom. AT: "I have cried until I cannot cry anymore" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-idiom]])

# my stomach churns

The word "churn" means to move around violently, normally in a circular rotation. This does not mean the stomach is literally churning, but describes how the author feels. AT: "my insides ache" or "my stomach hurts" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metaphor]])

# my inner parts are poured out to the ground

The author speaks of feeling grief in his inner being as if his inner body parts had fallen out of his body onto the ground. AT: "my entire inner being is in grief" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metaphor]])

# the daughter of my people

This is a poetic name of Jerusalem, which is spoken of here as if it were a woman. AT: "my people" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metonymy]] and [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-personification]])

# Where is grain and wine?

This rhetorical question is used as a request for something to eat. The children are telling their mother that they are hungry. The phrase "grain and wine" represents food and drink. This question may be written as a statement. AT: "Give us something to eat and drink." (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metonymy]] and [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-rquestion]])

# as they faint like a wounded man

This speaks of the children fainting from hunger and thirst in the same way that a wounded man faints. (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-simile]])

# their lives are poured out on the bosom of their mothers

This speaks of the children dying as if their lives were a liquid that was being poured out. AT: "they slowly die in the arms of their mothers" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metaphor]])