# General Information:

The author begins to address Jerusalem.

# What can I say ... Jerusalem?

The author uses this rhetorical question to express that he does not know what to say to help Jerusalem. This question can be written as a statement. AT: "There is nothing that I can say ... Jerusalem." (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-rquestion]])

# daughter of Jerusalem ... virgin daughter of Zion

These are poetic names for Jerusalem, which is spoken of here as if it were a woman. "Zion" is another name for Jerusalem. (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-personification]])

# To what can I compare to you ... Zion?

The author uses this rhetorical question to express that he does not know how to give comfort to Jerusalem. This question can be written as a statement. AT: "There is nothing to which I can compare you ... Zion." (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-rquestion]])

# Your wound is as great as the sea

This speaks of Jerusalem's great suffering as if it were as terrible as the sea is great. AT: "Your suffering is as terrible as the sea is large" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-simile]])

# Who can heal you?

"Who can restore you?" The author uses this rhetorical question to express that there is no one who can restore Jerusalem to the way it was before. This question can be written as a statement. AT: "No one can heal you." or "No one can restore you." (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-rquestion]])

# They have not exposed your iniquity to restore your fortunes

"They did not tell you about your sins to restore your fortunes." The word "fortune" refers to a person's wealth and prosperity.

# for you they gave utterances

The word "utterances" can be expressed with the verb "spoke." AT: "they spoke things to you" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-abstractnouns]])

# translationWords

* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/comfort]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/virgin]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/zion]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/heal]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/prophet]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/deceive]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/foolish]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/vision]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/reveal]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/iniquity]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/restore]]