# Arise, cry out ... of every street

The writer continues speaking to the walls of Jerusalem. He wants the people of Jerusalem to do what he is telling the walls to do. Some translations take this whole section to be spoken to the "walls," though this can be written with the first phrase "walls of the daughter of Zion!" spoken to the "walls," and the rest of the section spoken directly to the people. (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-apostrophe]])

# at the beginning of the night watches

"many times during the night." This refers to every time a watchman came on duty.

# Pour out your heart like water before the face of the Lord

The phrase "pour out your heart like water" is an idiom. Here the Lord is represented by his "face" to emphasize his presence. Alternate translation: "Tell the Lord how you feel in your inner being" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-idiom]])

# Lift up your hands to him

This was an action often performed while praying. Alternate translation: "Lift up your hands to him in prayer" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/translate-symaction]])

# for the lives of your children

This means for them to request that the Lord save their children. Alternate translation: "to save the lives of your children" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-explicit]])

# at the corner of every street

The word "every" here is an exaggeration for "many." Alternate translation: "where the streets come together" or "by the roads" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-hyperbole]])

