# Both the young and the old lie on the dust

It is implied here that this refers to dead people. AT: "The corpses of both the young and the old lie on the dust" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-explicit]])

# Both the young and the old

These phrases refer to people. These two opposites are used to refer to all ages of people. AT: "Both young people and old people" or "People of all ages" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-nominaladj]] and [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-merism]])

# My young women and my young men have fallen by the sword

Here the "sword" refers to their enemies. This is a euphemism that means that they were murdered by their enemies. AT: "My young women and my young men have been murdered by their enemies" or "My enemies have murdered my young women and my young men" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-euphemism]])

# you have slaughtered them

This speaks of Yahweh allowing the poeple to be slaughtered as if he killed them himself. AT: "you allowed them to be slaughtered" or "you allowed this to happen" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metonymy]])

# as you would call the people to a feast day

"as if they were coming to a feast." This speaks of how Yahweh summoned his enemies as if he were inviting them to a feast. (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-simile]])

# my terrors

Here the people the author fears are referred to as his "terrors." AT: "the attackers I was afraid of" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metonymy]])

# on every side

This is an idiom. AT: "to attack from every direction" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-idiom]])

# on the day of the anger of Yahweh

Here "day" is used as an idiom that refers to a general period of time. AT: "at the time when Yahweh acted in his anger" or "during the time that Yahweh displayed his anger" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-idiom]])