# Connecting Statement:

Jesus begins his ministry with his baptism.

# General Information:

The previous verse says that Herod put John in prison. It might be helpful to make it clear that the account starting in verse 21 happened before John was arrested. The UDB does this by starting verse 21 with "But before John was put in prison." (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-events]])

# Now it came about

This phrase marks the beginning of a new event in the story. If your language has a way for doing this, you could consider using it here. (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/writing-newevent]])

# when all the people were baptized

"while John baptized all the people." The phrase "all the people" refers to the people present with John. (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-activepassive]])

# Jesus also was baptized

This can be stated in active form. AT: "John baptized Jesus also" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-activepassive]])

# the heavens opened

"the sky opened" or "the sky became open." This is more than a simple clearing of clouds, but it's not clear what it means. It possibly means that a hole appeared in the sky.

# the Holy Spirit in bodily form came down on him like a dove

"in physical form the Holy Spirit came down like a dove onto Jesus"

# a voice came from heaven

Here "a voice came from heaven" represents people on earth hearing God in heaven speaking. It can be made clear that God spoke to Jesus. AT: "a voice from heaven said" or "God spoke to Jesus from heaven, saying" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metonymy]] and [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-explicit]])

# my Son

This is an important title for Jesus, the Son of God. (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/guidelines-sonofgodprinciples]])

# translationWords

* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/baptize]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/jesus]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/pray]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/heaven]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/holyspirit]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/dove]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/voice]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/beloved]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/sonofgod]]