# Connecting Statement:

Job continues speaking.

# The womb

This refers to the mother. AT: "The mother" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-synecdoche]])

# the worm will feed sweetly on him

This means that he will die and worms will eat his body. AT: "the worm will enjoy eating his dead body" or "he will die and then his body will be eaten by worms" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-idiom]])

# he will be remembered no more

This can be stated in active form. AT: "no one will remember him anymore" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-activepassive]])

# wickedness will be broken like a tree

God's destruction of the wicked man is describes as if he were cutting down a tree. This can be stated in active form. AT: "God will destroy the wicked as if he were a tree" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metaphor]] and [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-activepassive]])

# The wicked one devours

This metaphor emphasizes how ruthless the wicked man is. AT: "Just like a wild animal kills its prey, so the wicked person harms" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metaphor]])

# the barren women who have not borne children

The people of that day considered that a woman who was barren was cursed by God. Therefore, this represents the most unfortunate women.

# widow

a woman whose husband has died

# translationWords

* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/womb]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/evil]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/devour]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/barren]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/good]]