# General Information:

Job continues speaking.

# I have made a covenant with my eyes

Job speaks of making a promise about what he would look at as though his eyes were a person and he made a covenant with them. AT: "I have made a firm promise about what I will look at" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metaphor]] and [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-personification]])

# I have made a covenant with my eyes

What job promised can be stated clearly. AT: "I made a promise that I will not look lustfully on a virgin" or "I promised that I will not look lustfully on a virgin" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-explicit]])

# how then should I look with desire on a virgin?

Job uses this question to emphasize that he would never break his promise. AT: "So I certainly will not look with lust at a virgin." (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-rquestion]])

# For what is the portion from God above, the inheritance from the Almighty on high?

Job speaks of God's response to people's behavior as if it were the portion of an inheritance that God gives. AT: "For how will God above respond to me? What will the Almighty on high do?" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metaphor]] and [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-parallelism]])

# For what is the portion from God above, the inheritance from the Almighty on high?

Possible meanings are Job uses this question to emphasize 1) that God will not bless bad behavior. AT: "For if I look lustfully on a woman, God Almighty on high will not bless me." or 2) that God will punish bad behavior. AT: "For if I look lustfully on a woman, God Almighty on high will certainly punish me." (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-rquestion]])

# translationWords

* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/covenant]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/virgin]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/god]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/inherit]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/almighty]]