# General Information:

Job continues describing situations in which he would deserve God's punishment, but he knows they are not true. (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-hypo]])

# If my step has turned out of the right way

Here "my step" is a metaphor for Job's behavior, and "turned out of the right way" is a metaphor for changing from living right. AT: "If I have changed from living right" or "If I have stopped doing what is right" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metaphor]])

# if my heart has gone after my eyes

Here "my heart" and "my eyes" are metonyms for what Job desires and sees. The heart going after the eyes is a metaphor for desiring to do what he sees. It is implied that this refers to sinful things that Job sees. AT: "if I have have wanted to do any sinful things that I see" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metonymy]] and [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metaphor]])

# if any spot has defiled my hands

This is a metaphor for being guilty. AT: "if I am guilty of any sin at all" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metaphor]])

# then let me sow and let another eat ... my field

Job is saying that if he really has sinned, then this bad thing should happen to him. He would do the hard work of sowing his fields, but he would not be able to eat any of it.

# let the harvest be uprooted out of my field

This can be stated in active form. AT: "let someone else come and take the harvest from my field" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-activepassive]])

# translationWords

* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/heart]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/hand]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/sow]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/harvest]]