# General Information:

Job continues describing situations in which he would deserve God's punishment, but he knows they are not true. (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-hypo]])

# For that would be a terrible crime

The word "that" refers to Job sleeping with another woman.

# it would be a crime to be punished by judges

This can be stated in active form. AT: "it would be a crime for which judges would be right to punish me" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-activepassive]])

# For that is a fire that consumes as far as Abaddon, and it would burn all my harvest to the root

Job speaks of the harm that sleeping with another woman causes as if it were a fire that destroys everything. The words "that" and "it" refer to sleeping with another man's wife. AT: "For adultery is like a fire that burns up everything from here to Abaddon and that would burn up all my harvest" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metaphor]])

# consumes as far as Abaddon

These words are probably a metaphor for "destroys everything so I have nothing good for the rest of my life," but you should probably translate this literally. (See: [[:en:ta:vol1:translate:figs-metaphor]])

# it would burn all my harvest to the root

The word "it" here refers to the action sleeping with another man's wife. This action is a metonym for the punishment that Job would suffer as a result of the action. A fire burning up his harvest is a synecdoche for losing everything he has worked for. AT: "those who punish me would take away everything I have worked for" (See: [[:en:ta:vol2:translate:figs-metonymy]] and [[:en:ta:vol2:translate:figs-synecdoche]])

# translationWords

* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/criminal]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/punish]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/judgeposition]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/fire]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/consume]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/hades]]