# General Information:

Job continues describing situations in which he would deserve God's punishment, but he knows they are not true. He does not finish his sentence in verses 16 and 17. Instead he explains in verse 18 why they are not true. (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-hypo]])

# If I have withheld poor people from their desire

"If I have kept poor people from getting what they desire"

# if I have caused the eyes of the widow to grow dim from crying

Here "to grow dim" refers to the widow having bad eyesight from crying a lot. AT: "if I have caused a widow to cry in great sadness" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-idiom]])

# my morsel

"my food"

# because from my youth the orphan grew up with me as with a father

Here "the orphan" represents orphans in general. Job is describing how he truly treated orphans. AT: "because even when I was young I took care of orphans like a father" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-genericnoun]])

# because from my youth

The phrase "But I have done none of those things" is understood from the context. AT: "But I have done none of those things, because from my youth" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-ellipsis]])

# I have guided his mother, a widow, from my own mother's womb

Job is describing how he truly treated widows. With the phrase "from my own mother's womb" he uses exaggeration to emphasize that he did this all his life. AT: "all my life I have guided the orphan's mother, a widow" or "all my life I have guided widows" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-hyperbole]])