# General Information:

Job continues describing situations in which he would deserve God's punishment, but he knows they are not true. (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-hypo]])

# if his heart has not blessed me

The phrase "his heart" represents the poor man who needs clothing. AT: "if he has not blessed me" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-synecdoche]])

# because he has not been warmed with the wool of my sheep

Here "the wool of my sheep" represents blankets or clothing made from the wool of Job's sheep. This can be stated in active form. AT: "because the wool of my sheep has not warmed him" or "because I have not given him clothing made from the wool of my sheep" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metonymy]] and [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-activepassive]])

# if I have lifted up my hand against fatherless people

Lifting up the hand against someone represents threatening to harm him. AT: "if I have threatened to harm fatherless people" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metonymy]])

# I saw my support in the city gate

Here "saw" is a metaphor for "knew," "support" is a metaphor for "approval," and "the city gate" is a metonym for the leaders who sit at the city gate. AT: "I knew that the leaders at the city gate would approve of me" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metaphor]] and [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metonymy]])

# in the city gate

This is where the important men of the city would gather to make decisions.

# then bring charges against me

This phrase is not in the original language or in other versions of the Bible. It was added here to help preserve the meaning of Job's statement in this long sentence.

# translationWords

* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/perish]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/bless]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/sheep]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/hand]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/gate]]