# General Information:

Job continues describing situations in which he would deserve God's punishment, but he knows they are not true. (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-hypo]])

# the men of my tent

The tent represents Job's household. The men of his tent includes family members and servants. All of these knew Job well. AT: "the men of my household" or "my family members and servants" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metonymy]])

# Who can find one who has not been filled with Job's food?

Job's men would have used this question to emphasize that Job was generous to everyone. AT: "Everyone has been filled with Job's food!" or "Everyone we know of has eaten as much of Job's food as he wanted!"(See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-rquestion]])

# even the foreigner has never had to stay in the city square

Job is explaining how he truly treated foreigners. Here "stay in the city square" represents sleeping overnight in the city square. AT: "foreigners have never had to sleep in the city square" or "foreigners have never had to sleep outside" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metonymy]])

# I have always opened my doors to the traveler

Here "opened my doors to the traveler" represents welcoming the traveler into his home. AT: "I have always welcomed the traveler into my home" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metonymy]])

# and if that is not so, then bring charges against me

This phrase is not in the original language or in other versions of the Bible. It was added here to help preserve the meaning of Job's statement in this long sentence.