# Oh, if only I had someone to hear me!

This exclamation expresses Job's wish. AT: "I wish I had someone to hear me" or "I wish that someone would listen to me" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-exclamations]])

# here is my signature

Here "my signature" represents Job's promise that everything he is saying is true. He speaks of his complaint as if he had written a legal document. AT: "I solemnly promise that all I have said is true" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metaphor]])

# let the Almighty answer me!

Here an answer probably refers to telling Job what wrong he accuses Job of doing. AT: "let the Almighty tell me what I have done wrong" or "I wish the Almighty would say what I have done wrong" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-explicit]])

# If only I had the indictment that my opponent has written!

This expresses Job's wish. Job speaks as though his troubles are evidence that someone has written something accusing him of terrible sin. AT: "I wish I had the accusation that my opponent has written" or "If only I could read my opponent's complaint against me"

# my opponent

Possible meanings are 1) this refers to God or 2) this refers to someone else.

# Surely I would carry it openly on my shoulder; I would put it on like a crown

This represents putting it where everyone could read it. (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metaphor]])

# I would declare to him an accounting for my steps

Here "my steps" represents Job's actions. AT: "I would declare to him an accounting for all I have done" or "I would tell him everything I have done" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metaphor]])

# as a confident prince I would go up to him

This means Job would approach God without any fear. Job implies that he could do this because he was not guilty. AT: "I would approach him boldly" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-simile]])

# translationWords

* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/almighty]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/written]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/crown]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/declare]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/confidence]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/prince]]