# Listen to the words of your servant

The woman refers to herself as "your servant." This is a polite way to speak to someone with greater authority.

# that advice would end the matter

"that advice would solve the problem"

# most peaceful and faithful in Israel

This describes the cities. AT: "most peaceful and faithful cities in Israel" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-ellipsis]])

# city that is a mother in Israel

This speaks of the importance of this city among the nation of Israel as if it were a well respected mother. AT: "city that everyone in Israel respects like they would their mother" or "city that is very important and that Israel respects" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metaphor]])

# Why do you want to swallow up the inheritance of Yahweh?

Here the woman uses a rhetorical question to suggest to Joab what they should not do. This question can be written as a statement. AT: "You should not destroy the city that is Yahweh's inheritance!" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-rquestion]])

# swallow up

Here the woman speaks of the army destroying the city as if the city were food to be swallowed. AT: "destroy" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metaphor]])

# the inheritance of Yahweh

Here the city is referred to as Yahweh's inheritance to emphasize that it belongs to Yahweh. AT: "a city that belongs to Yahweh" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metonymy]])

# translationWords

* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/word]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/peace]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/faithful]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/israel]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/inherit]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/yahweh]]