# Far be it, far be it from me, that I should

He repeats this phrase to emphasize that this is something he would never do. AT: "Truly, truly, I would never" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-idiom]])

# that I should swallow up or destroy

This refers to destroying the city. This may be added. AT: "that I should swallow up or destroy your city" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-ellipsis]])

# swallow up or destroy

Both of these phrases means to destroy. In the first phrase "destroying" is spoken of as if it were "swallowing." These may be combined. AT: "ruin or destroy the city" or "destroy" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-doublet]] and [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metaphor]])

# has lifted up his hand against

This means to rebel and fight against someone. AT: "has opposed" or "is rebelling against" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-idiom]])

# Give up him alone

Joab is asking for the people of the city to release Sheba to him. AT: "Hand this man over to us" or "Give this man to us" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-idiom]])

# I will withdraw from the city

Here the "I" refers to both Joab and his soldiers. AT: "We will withdraw from the city" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-synecdoche]])

# His head will be thrown

This can be stated in active form. AT: "We will throw his head" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-activepassive]])

# Then the woman went to all the people in her wisdom

This means that the woman acted wisely and spoke to her people about what they should do. AT: "Then the wise woman spoke to all the people" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-explicit]])

# every man to his home

"every man went to his own home"