# Now

This word introduces background information about the valley of Siddim. Your language may have another way of introducing background information. (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/writing-background]])

# was full of tar pits

"had many tar pits." These were holes in the ground that had tar in them.

# tar

a thick, sticky, black liquid that comes up from the ground. See how this is translated in [Genesis 11:3](../11/03.md).

# the kings of Sodom and Gomorrah

Here the kings represent themselves and their armies. AT: the kings of Sodom and Gomorrah and their armies" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-synecdoche]])

# they fell in there

Possible meanings are 1) some of their soldiers fell in the tar pits or 2) the kings themselves fell in the tar pits. Since [Genesis 14:17](./17.md) says that the king of Sodom went to meet Abram, the first meaning is more likely correct. (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metonymy]])

# Those who were left

"Those who did not die in battle and did not fall in the pits"

# the goods of Sodom and Gomorrah

The words "Sodom" and "Gomorrah" are metonyms for the people who lived in those cities. AT: "the wealth of the people of Sodom and Gomorrah" or "the property of the people of Sodom and Gomorrah" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metonymy]])

# their provisions

"their food and drink"

# went their way

"they went away"

# they also took Lot, Abram's brother's son, who was living in Sodom, along with all his possessions

The phrases "Abram's brother's son" and "who was living in Sodom" remind the reader of things that were written earlier about Lot. AT: "they also took Lot, along with all his possessions. Lot was Abram's brother's son and was living in Sodom at that time" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-distinguish]])

# translationWords

* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/king]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/sodom]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/gomorrah]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/lot]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/abraham]]