# General Information:

Bildad continues speaking to Job.

# Why are we regarded as beasts? Why are we considered stupid in your sight?

Bildad uses these rhetorical questions to emphasize to Job that he should not consider them as animals who cannot think or speak. They can be written as statements in active form. AT: "We should not be regarded as beasts, as stupid in your sight." or "You should not regard us as beasts or think of us as stupid." (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-rquestion]] and [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-activepassive]])

# Why are we

The word "we" probably refers to Bildad and Job's other friends and so is exclusive. (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-exclusive]])

# regarded

Regarding, looking, is a metonym here for thinking well or badly of someone. (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metonymy]])

# in your sight

Here sight represents judgment or evaluation. AT: "in your judgment" or "in your thinking" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metaphor]])

# your sight

The word "your" here is plural. Bildad is using sarcasm to tell Job that Job should not think of himself as a great man. AT: "your sight, you who wrongly think you are great" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-123person]] and [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-irony]])

# You who tear at yourself in your anger

Here Bildad is stating that it is because of Job's anger and disobedience that he has been injured, not because of God's anger as Job has previously claimed. The word "tear" here means to "injure." AT: "You who have caused your own injuries because of your anger" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-explicit]])

# should the earth be forsaken for you or should the rocks be removed out of their places?

This rhetorical question suggests that letting Job, whom they consider a guilty man, go free would be like changing the whole world. Bildad uses these huge exaggerations here to emphasize how outrageous he thinks this is. This can be written as a statement. AT: "asking God to let you, a guilty man, go free is as silly as asking for God to forsake the earth for your sake or for God to move the rocks out of their places to please you!" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-rquestion]] and [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-hyperbole]])

# should the earth be forsaken

This can be stated in active form. AT: "should everyone leave the earth" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-activepassive]])

# should the rocks be removed out of their places

This can be stated in active form. The word "rocks" here refers to large rocks, such as those in the mountains. AT: "should God remove the rocks from their places" or "should God move mountains around" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-activepassive]])

# translationWords

* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/beast]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/angry]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/earth]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/forsaken]]