# You who tear at yourself in your anger

Here Bildad is stating that it is because of Job's anger and disobedience that he has been injured, not because of God's anger as Job has previously claimed. The word "tear" here means to "injure." Alternate translation: "You who have caused your own injuries because of your anger" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-explicit]])

# should the earth be forsaken for you or should the rocks be removed out of their places?

This rhetorical question suggests that letting Job, whom they consider a guilty man, go free would be like changing the whole world. Bildad uses these huge exaggerations here to emphasize how outrageous he thinks this is. This can be written as a statement. Alternate translation: "asking God to let you, a guilty man, go free is as silly as asking for God to forsake the earth for your sake or for God to move the rocks out of their places to please you!" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-rquestion]] and [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-hyperbole]])

# should the earth be forsaken

This can be stated in active form. Alternate translation: "should everyone leave the earth" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-activepassive]])

# should the rocks be removed out of their places

This can be stated in active form. The word "rocks" here refers to large rocks, such as those in the mountains. Alternate translation: "should God remove the rocks from their places" or "should God move mountains around" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-activepassive]])

