# General Information:

Bildad continues to speak and uses three parallel images to describe how suddenly the wicked person will experience disaster. (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-parallelism]])

# A trap will take him ... a snare will ... A noose is ... and a trap for him in the way

These four phrases speak of the wicked man experiencing disaster as if he were caught in a trap. AT: "It will be as though a trap will take him ... a snare will ... A noose is ... and a trap for him in the way" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metaphor]])

# A trap

People used this kind of trap to catch birds. The trap snapped shut and held on to the foot of the bird.

# will take him by the heel

Here the "heel" refers to the whole foot. AT: "will take hold of his foot" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-synecdoche]])

# A noose is hidden for him on the ground

This can be stated in active form. AT: "Someone has hidden a noose on the ground in order to catch him" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-activepassive]])

# A noose

a rope with a loop that grabs hold of an animal's leg when the animal steps in the middle of the loop

# a trap for him

The understood verbal phrase "is hidden" may be supplied. AT: "a trap is hidden on the path to catch him" or "someone will hide a trap to catch him in the way" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-ellipsis]])

# Terrors will make him afraid on every side

"Terrors all around will make him afraid"

# they will chase him at his heels

This speaks of the things that terrify the wicked person as if they were enemies who chased him. AT: "it will be as if the terrors will chase him all around" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-personification]])