# General Information:

Bildad continues to describe the wicked person.

# He will be driven from light into darkness ... and be chased out of this world

These phrases together emphasize the fact that the wicked person will be sent to Sheol, the place of the dead. (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-parallelism]])

# He will be driven from light into darkness

This can be stated in active form. AT: "God will drive the wicked person from light into darkness" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-activepassive]])

# from light into darkness

The word "light" refers to life, and the word "darkness" refers to death. AT: "from the light of life to the darkness of death" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metonymy]])

# be chased out of this world

This speaks of God making him leave earth and go where dead people go as if he were chasing him. AT: "God will make him leave this world" or "God will send him to the place where dead people go" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metaphor]])

# be chased out

This can be stated in active form. AT: "God will chase him" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-activepassive]])

# He will have no son ... nor any remaining kinfolk where he had stayed

Together these two phrases emphasize that he will have no family or descendants left. (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-parallelism]])

# son's son

"grandson" or "grandchild"

# kinfolk

"relatives"

# Those who live in the west ... those who live in the east will be frightened by it

The phrases "in the west" and "in the east" are together a merism that refers to all people living everywhere. This is an exaggeration as not everyone on the earth will hear about what happened to a specific wicked person. AT: "Everyone in the whole world will be horrified and frightened when they see what happens to the wicked person" or "Many people who live in the east and in the west will be horrified and frightened when they see what happens to the wicked person" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-merism]] and [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-hyperbole]])

# one day

"someday"

# translationWords

* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/light]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/darkness]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/world]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/son]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/peoplegroup]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/biblicaltimeday]]