# Will the son of Jesse give every one of you fields and vineyards?

Saul uses a question to emphasize that David, who is from the tribe of Judah, does not desire to do this for the people of the tribe of Benjamin. Alternate translation: "The son of Jesse will not give you fields or vineyards." (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-rquestion]])

# Will the son of Jesse give

The time when he will give can be made explicit. Alternate translation: "When the son of Jesse becomes king, will he give" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-explicit]])

# the son of Jesse

"David"

# Will he make you all captains ... me?

Saul uses a question to emphasize that David, who is from the tribe of Judah, does not desire to do this for the people of the tribe of Benjamin. Alternate translation: "He will not make you captains ... against me." (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-rquestion]])

# Will he make you all captains

You may need to make explicit when he will make them captains. Alternate translation: "When he becomes king, will he make you all captains" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-explicit]])

# captains of thousands and captains of hundreds

Possible meanings are 1) these numbers represent the exact amount of soldiers that these captains led. Alternate translation: "captains of 1,000 soldiers and captains of 100 soldiers" or 2) the words translated as "thousands" and "hundreds" do not represent exact numbers, but are the names of larger and smaller military divisions. Alternate translation: "captains of large military divisions and captains of smaller military divisions" See how you translated a similar phrase in [1 Samuel 17:18](../17/18.md). (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/translate-numbers]])

