# Connecting Statement:

Paul continues by contrasting believers' earthly bodies to the heavenly ones God will give.

# if the earthly dwelling that we live in is destroyed, we have a building from God

Here a temporary "earthly dwelling" is a metaphor for a person's physical body. Here a permanent "building from God" is a metaphor for the new body that God will give believers after they die. (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metaphor]])

# if the earthly dwelling that we live in is destroyed

This can be stated in active form. AT: "if people destroy the earthly dwelling that we live in" or "if people kill our bodies" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-activepassive]])

# It is a house not made by human hands

Here "house" means the same thing as "building from God." Here "hands" is a synecdoche that represents the human as a whole. This can be stated in active form. AT: "It is a house that humans did not make" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-activepassive]] and [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-synecdoche]])

# in this tent we groan

Here "this tent" means the same thing as "the earthly dwelling that we live in." The word groan is a sound that a person makes when they eagerly desire to have something that is good.

# longing to be clothed with our heavenly dwelling

The words "our heavenly dwelling" means the same thing as "building from God." Paul speaks of the new body that believers receive after they die as if it were both a building and a piece of clothing that a person can put on. (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metaphor]])

# by putting it on

"by putting on our heavenly dwelling"

# we will not be found to be naked

This can be stated in active form. AT: "we will not be naked" or "God will not find us naked" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-activepassive]])

# translationWords

* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/earth]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/life]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/god]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/eternity]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/heaven]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/tent]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/groan]]