# we will rejoice in your victory

Here "we" refers to the people. They will rejoice in the king's victory. (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-exclusive]])

# in the name of our God

Here "name" represents honor or reputation. AT: "in honor of our God" or "for the reputation of our God" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metonymy]])

# we will raise banners

"we will raise victory flags." They would do this to show that they were praising God because he gave their king victory over his enemies. (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/translate-symaction]])

# grant all your petitions

"give you everything you request from him"

# Now

This word is used here to mark a break in the psalm. It transitions from the people speaking to the king speaking.

# I know

The word "I" probably refers to the king who is speaking in this section.

# his anointed one ... answer him ... rescue him

The king is speaking about himself in the third person. This can be stated in first person. AT: "me, his anointed one ... answer me ... rescue me" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-123person]])

# from his holy heaven

God dwells in heaven as well as in the temple in Jerusalem. (See: [Psalms 20:2](./001.md))

# with the strength of his right hand that can rescue him

God's right hand represents his power. AT: "with his great strength he will rescue him" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metonymy]])

# translationWords

* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/rejoice]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/raise]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/anoint]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/holy]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/heaven]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/righthand]]