# work with your hands

Here "hands" represents the whole person. AT: "keep on working" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-synecdoche]])

# whether morning or evening, or this or that

These two phrases mean basically the same thing and emphasize that the person's work may prosper, no matter what time he has done it. AT: "whether the seed that you planted in the morning or the seed that you planted in the evening" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-doublet]] and [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-ellipsis]])

# light is sweet

Here the word "light" refers to being able to see the sun and therefore being alive. And, this speaks of the joy of being alive as if the light had a sweet taste. AT: "it is a joy to be able to see the sun" or "being alive is delightful" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metonymy]] and [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metaphor]])

# for the eyes to see the sun

The "eyes" represent the whole person. This phrase means basically the same thing as the previous phrase. AT: "for a person to see the sun" or "to be alive" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-synecdoche]] and [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-parallelism]])

# happy in all of them

Here the word "them" refers to the years that a person is alive.

# the coming days of darkness

Future time is spoken of as if the "days are coming" And, here the word "darkness" refers to death. AT: "how many days that he will be dead" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metaphor]] and [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-euphemism]])

# for they will be many

Here the word "they" refers to the "days of darkness" AT: "for he will be dead for many more days than he is alive" or "for he will be dead forever"

# Everything to come is vanishing vapor

Here "vanishing vapor" is a metaphor. Possible meanings are 1) AT: "No one knows what will happen after he dies" or 2) AT: "Everything to come is meaningless" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metaphor]])

# Everything to come

Possible meanings are 1) "Everything that happens after death" or 2) "Everything that happens in the future"

# translationWords

* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/seed]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/prosper]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/good]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/amen]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/light]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/darkness]]