# All the land

It is implied that this is the land of Judah. AT: "All the land of Judah" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-explicit]])

# Arabah

This is the name of a plain in the Jordan River Valley. (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/translate-names]])

# Geba

This is the name of a town on the northern border of Judah. (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/translate-names]])

# Rimmon

This is the name of a town south of Jerusalem. (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/translate-names]])

# Jerusalem will continue to be raised up

This contrasts Jerusalem, which will remain at a higher elevation, to the surrounding area, which is lower in elevation. The contrast can be indicated by adding the word "but." This can also be stated in active form. AT: "But, Jerusalem will remain high up" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/writing-connectingwords]] and [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-activepassive]])

# the Benjamin Gate ... the first gate ... the Corner Gate

These are names of gates in the northeast part of city wall of Jerusalem. Possible meanings are 1) "the first gate" and "the Corner Gate" refer to the same gate or 2) "the first gate" and "the Corner gate" are separate gates. (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/translate-names]] and [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-explicit]])

# the Tower of Hananel

This refers to a strong point in the city defenses on the northern wall. It was probably built by a man named Hananel. (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/translate-names]])

# the king's winepresses

This probably refers to the place where wine was made for the royal family. It was located in the southwest part of Jerusalem. (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-explicit]])

