# General Information:

God continues the prophecy of what will happen to the scattered Israelites.

# I will give them one heart ... give them a heart of flesh

Yahweh speaks of all of the Israelites who are in exile as if they are one person, with one heart and one spirit. (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metaphor]])

# I will give them one heart

Here the metonym "heart" represents the will and emotions. Yahweh speaks of causing all of the people to share the same new emotions as if he were giving them one heart. (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metonymy]] and [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metaphor]])

# I will put a new spirit within them

Here the metonym "spirit" represents the thoughts and disposition. Yahweh speaks of causing the people to think new thoughts as if he were giving them a new spirit. (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metonymy]] and [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metaphor]])

# I will take out the heart of stone from their flesh and give them a heart of flesh

Yahweh speaks of the people being stubborn as if they had a stone heart and of their being willingly obedient as if they had a heart of flesh. He speaks of causing them to become willingly obedient as if he were exchanging those two hearts. AT: "I will cause them to stop being stubborn and instead cause them to obey me willingly" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metaphor]])

# they will walk in my statutes, they will carry out my decrees and do them

Each of these phrases have similar meanings and describes the people as obeying what Yahweh has commanded them to do. They are repeated for emphasis. (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-parallelism]])

# they will walk in my statutes

Yahweh speaks of obeying his statutes as if it were walking in them, like a person would walk along a road. AT: "they will obey my statutes" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metaphor]])

# those who walk with affection toward their detestable things

Yahweh speaks of a person's conduct as if it were the person walking. AT: "those who conduct their lives out of devotion to their detestable things" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metaphor]])

# detestable things

This means things that cause hatred or disgust. Here it refers to idols. See how you translated this in [Ezekiel 11:18](./16.md).

# I will bring their conduct on their own heads

Here the metonym "conduct" represents the consequences of their actions. The idiom "bring ... on their own heads" means they will experience these consequences. AT: "I will cause them to suffer the consequences of their actions" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metonymy]] and [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-idiom]])