# Connecting Statement:

Jesus continues to teach Peter about paying the temple tax.

# General Information:

This is the end of the part of the story that began in [Matthew 13:54](../13/54.md), where the writer tells of continued opposition to Jesus' ministry and teaching about the kingdom of heaven.

# When he said, "From others," Jesus said

If you translated Jesus' questions as statements in [Matthew 17:25](./24.md), you may need to give an alternate response here. You could also state it as an indirect quotation. AT: "When Peter said, 'Yes, that is true. Kings collect taxes from foreigners,' Jesus said" or "After Peter agreed with Jesus, Jesus said" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-quotations]])

# From others

In modern times, leaders usually tax their own citizens. But, in ancient times, the leaders often taxed the people they had conquered rather than their own citizens.

# sons

people over whom a ruler or king rules

# But so that we do not cause the tax collectors to sin, go

"But we do not want to make the tax collectors angry. So, go."

# throw in a hook

Fishermen tied hooks to the end of a line, then threw it in the water to catch fish. (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-explicit]])

# its mouth

"the fish's mouth"

# a shekel

a silver coin worth four days' wages (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/translate-bmoney]])

# Take it

"Take the shekel"

# for me and you

Here "you" is singular and refers to Peter. Each man had to pay a half shekel tax. So one shekel would be enough for Jesus and Peter to pay their taxes. (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-you]])

# translationWords

* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/names/peter]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/foreigner]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/jesus]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/taxcollector]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/sin]]