# mother-in-law

Naomi is the mother of Ruth's dead husband.

# My daughter

Ruth became Naomi's daughter by marrying her son and further by her actions in caring for Naomi after returning to Bethlehem.

# should I not seek a place for you?

Naomi used this question to tell Ruth what she planned to do. AT: "I must look for a place for you!" or "I must find a husband to care for you!" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-rquestion]])

# a place for you to rest

Possible meanings are 1) literally in finding a house for her to live in or 2) figuratively in finding a husband to care for her. Naomi probably had both senses in mind. (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metaphor]])

# female workers you have been with

The translation can make explicit that she was working in the fields with these female workers. AT: "female workers you have been with in the fields" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-explicit]])

# is he not our kinsman?

Naomi probably used this question to remind Ruth of something she had already told her. AT: "he is our relative." (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-rquestion]])

# Look

This term indicates that the following statement is very important.

# winnowing

To winnow means to separate grain from the unwanted chaff by tossing both the grain and chaff into the air, allowing the wind to blow the chaff away.

# translationWords

* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/names/boaz]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/kin]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/winnow]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/barley]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/thresh]]