# General Information:

The message Yahweh sent to King Josiah through Huldah, the prophetess, continues.

# my anger has been kindled against this place, and it will not be extinguished

Yahweh's anger is spoken of as if it were a fire that was lit. AT: "my anger against this place is like a fire that cannot be put out" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metaphor]])

# this place

Here "place" represents the people who live in Jerusalem and Judah. AT: "these people" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metonymy]])

# About the words that you heard

Here "words" represents the message that Huldah just spoke. AT: "About the message that you heard" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metonymy]])

# because your heart was tender

Here "heart" represents a person's inner being. Feeling sorry is spoken of as if the heart were tender. AT: "because you felt sorry" or "because you repented" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metonymy]] and [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metaphor]])

# that they would become a desolation and a curse

The abstract nouns "desolation" and "curse" can be stated as an adjective and a verb. AT: "that I would make the land desolate and would curse them" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-abstractnouns]])

# torn your clothes

This is a symbolic action that indicates intense grief or sadness. (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/translate-symaction]])

# this is Yahweh's declaration

Yahweh speaks of himself by name to express the certainty of what he is declaring. See how you translated this in [2 Kings 19:33](../19/32.md). AT: "this is what Yahweh has declared" or "this is what I, Yahweh, have declared" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-123person]])