# General Information:

Verses 35-38 contains a series of connected phrases referring to Moses. Each phrase begins with statements such as "This Moses" or "This same Moses" or "This is the man" or "It is the same Moses." If possible, use similar statements to emphasize Moses.

# General Information:

After the Israelites left Egypt, they spent 40 years wandering around the wilderness before God led them into the land he had promised them.

# This Moses whom they rejected

This refers back to the events recorded in [Acts 7:27-28](./26.md).

# Who made you a ruler and a judge?

This question was used to rebuke Moses. See how you translated this rhetorical question in [Acts 7:27](./26.md). AT: "You have no authority over us!" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-rquestion]])

# a ruler and deliverer

"Deliver" here is a metaphor for "bring." AT: "to rule over them and bring them to safety" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metaphor]]).

# by the hand of the angel ... bush

The hand is a metonym for the action performed by the person. In this case, the angel had commanded Moses to return to Egypt. Stephen speaks as if the angel had a physical hand. You may need to make explicit what action the angel did. AT: "by the action of the angel" or "by having the angel ... bush command him to return to Egypt" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metonymy]])

# during forty years

Stephen's audience knew about the forty years the Israelites spent in the wilderness. AT: "during the 40 years that the Israelite people lived in the wilderness" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-explicit]])

# raise up a prophet

"Raise up" here is an idiom for "establish." AT: "raise up a prophet" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-idiom]])

# from among your brothers

"from among your own people"

# translationWords

* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/names/moses]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/ruler]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/judgeposition]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/deliverer]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/names/egypt]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/miracle]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/sign]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/names/redsea]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/desert]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/israel]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/prophet]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/brother]]