# General Information:

Stephen's quotation here is from the prophet Amos.

# they made a calf

Stephen's audience knew the calf they made was a statue. AT: "they made a statue that looked like a calf" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-explicit]])

# a calf ... the idol ... the work of their hands

These phrases all refer to the same statue of the calf.

# God turned

"God turned away." This action expresses that God was not pleased with the people and no longer helped them. AT: "God stopped correcting them" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/translate-symaction]])

# gave them up

"abandoned them"

# the stars in the sky

Possible meanings for the original phrase are 1) the stars only or 2) the sun, moon, and stars.

# the book of the prophets

This was apparently a collection of the writings of several of the Old Testament prophets into one scroll. It would also have included the writings of Amo.

# Did you offer to me slain beasts and sacrifices ... Israel?

God asked this question to show Israel they did not worship Him with their sacrifices. AT: "You did not honor me when you offered slain beasts and sacrifices ... Israel" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-rquestion]])

# house of Israel

This refers to the whole nation of Israel. AT: "all you Israelites" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metonymy]])

# translationWords

* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/sacrifice]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/idol]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/rejoice]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/works]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/turn]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/heaven]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/prophet]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/desert]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/house]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/israel]]