# General Information:

In verses 49 and 50, Stephen quotes from the prophet Isaiah. In the quotation, God is speaking about himself.

# made with hands

The hand is a synecdoche for the whole person. AT: "made by people" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-synecdoche]])

# Heaven is my throne ... the earth is the footstool for my feet

The prophet is comparing the greatness of God's presence to how impossible it is for man to build a place for God to rest on earth since the whole earth is nothing but a place for God to rest his feet.

# What kind of house can you build for me?

God asks this question to show how useless man's efforts are to take care of God. AT: "You can not build a house adequate enough for me!" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-rquestion]])

# what is the place for my rest?

God asks this question to show man that he cannot provide God any rest. AT: "There is no place of rest good enough for me!" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-rquestion]])

# Did my hand not make all these things?

God asks this question to show that man did not create anything. AT: "My hand made all these things!" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-rquestion]])

# translationWords

* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/solomon]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/house]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/mosthigh]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/hand]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/prophet]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/heaven]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/throne]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/footstool]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/hand]]