# the first day

"the 1st day" or "day 1" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/translate-ordinal]])

# Nahshon son of Amminadab

These are the names of men. See how you translated these names in [Numbers 1:7](../01/07.md)

# weighing 130 shekels

"weighing one hundred and thirty shekels." If necessary, these weights can be written in modern measurements. AT: "weighing nearly one and a half kilograms" or "weighing one kilogram and 430 grams" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/translate-numbers]] and [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/translate-bweight]])

# one silver bowl weighing seventy shekels

"one silver bowl weighing 70 shekels." If necessary, these weights can be written in modern measurements. AT: "one silver bowl weighing nearly eight tenths of a kilogram" or "one silver bowl weighting 770 grams" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/translate-bweight]] and [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/translate-numbers]])

# by the standard weight of the sanctuary shekel

There were shekels of different weights. This is the one that people had to use in the sanctuary of the sacred tent. If you are converting the weights to modern measures, here is another way to translate this phrase. AT: "measured by the standard weights used in the sanctuary" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/translate-bweight]])

# fine flour mixed with oil

This can be stated in active form. AT: "fine flour that he had mixed with oil" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-activepassive]])

# one gold dish that weighed ten shekels

If necessary, this can be written in modern measurements. AT: "one gold dish that weighed one tenth of a kilogram" or "one gold dish that weighed 110 grams" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/translate-bweight]])