# set all these apart

The phrase "set apart" means to be dedicated to a specific purpose. In this case, the offerings were dedicated to Yahweh. (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-idiom]])

# on the day that Moses anointed the altar

Here the word "day" refers to a general period of time. The leaders of Israel dedicated these things over the course of 12 days. AT: "when Moses anointed the altar"

# Each silver platter weighed 130 shekels

If necessary, these weights can be written in modern measurements. See how you translated this same weight in [Numbers 7:13](./12.md). AT: "each silver platter weighed nearly one and a half kilograms" or "each silver platter weighed one kilogram and 430 grams" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/translate-bweight]] and [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/translate-numbers]])

# each bowl weighed seventy shekels

"each bowl weighted 70 shekels." If necessary, these weight can be written in modern measurements. See how you translated this same weight in [Numbers 7:13](./12.md). AT: "each bowl weighed nearly eight tenths of a kilogram" or "each bowl weighed 770 grams" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/translate-bweight]] and [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/translate-numbers]])

# 2,400 shekels

"two thousand four hundred shekels" or "twenty-four hundred shekels" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/translate-numbers]])

# by the standard weight of the sanctuary shekel

There were shekels of different weights. This is the one that people had to use in the sanctuary of the sacred tent. See how you translated this phrase in [Numbers 7:13](./12.md). AT: "measured by the standard weights used in the sanctuary" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/translate-bweight]])

# All the silver vessels weighed ... All the gold dishes weighed

"All the silver vessels together weighed ... All the gold dishes together weighed"

# the silver vessels

This refers to all of the offerings that were made of silver, both the platters and the bowls.

# Each of the twelve gold dishes ... weighed ten shekels

"Each of the 12 gold dishes ... weighed 10 shekels." If necessary, this can be written in modern measurements. See how you translated these same weights in [Numbers 7:14](./12.md). AT: "Each of the 12 gold dishes ... weighed one tenth of a kilogram" or "Each of the 12 gold dishes ... weighed 110 grams" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/translate-bweight]] and [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/translate-numbers]])

# 120 shekels

"one hundred and twenty shekels" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/translate-numbers]])