# During the days of Ahaz ... king of Judah

"When Ahaz ... was king of Judah" This was when the events happened. (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-idiom]])

# Rezin ... Pekah ... Remaliah

men's names (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/translate-names]])

# Rezin ... and Pekah ... went up

The author speaks as if the kings were the armies they led. AT: "Rezin ... and Pekah ... led their armies up" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-synecdoche]])

# to war against it

The author speaks as if the city itself were the people who live in it. AT: "to war against the people of Jerusalem" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metonymy]])

# It was reported to the house of David

This can be stated in active form. AT: "the house of David heard the report" or "someone reported to the house of David" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-activepassive]])

# the house of David

The word "house" is a metonym for the family living in the house. AT: "King Ahaz and his counselors" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metonymy]])

# that Aram was allied with Ephraim

Here "Aram" and "Ephraim" refer to their kings. Here "Ephraim" represents the whole northern kingdom of Israel. AT: "that Rezin, the king of Aram was helping Pekah, the king of Israel" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metonymy]] and [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-synecdoche]])

# His heart trembled, and the heart of his people, as the trees of the forest shake in the wind

The trembling of their hearts at this news is compared to the way trees shake when the wind blows through them. AT: "Ahaz and his people were very afraid" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-simile]])

# translationWords

* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/ahaz]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/jotham]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/uzziah]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/king]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/judah]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/aram]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/israel]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/jerusalem]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/house]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/david]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/ephraim]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/heart]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/peoplegroup]]