# General Information:

Yahweh continues to tell Isaiah what he should tell Ahaz. (See: [Isaiah 7:3](./03.md))

# the head of Damascus is Rezin

Here "head" is a metonym for the most important part. It is implied that Rezin is only a man, and therefore cannot stop Yahweh's plan. This can be stated explicitly. AT: "the king of Damascus is Rezin, who is only a man" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metonymy]] and [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-explicit]])

# sixty-five years

"65 years" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/translate-numbers]])

# Ephraim will be shattered and will no longer be a people

Here "Ephraim" refers to all of the northern kingdom of Israel. This can be stated in active form. AT: "an army will destroy Ephraim, and there will no longer be a people of Israel" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-activepassive]])

# the head of Samaria is Remaliah's son

This means Pekah is the king of Samaria and all of Israel. AT: "the king of Samaria is Pekah, who is a weak man" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-explicit]])

# If you do not remain firm in faith, surely you will not remain secure

This can be stated in positive form. AT: "If you continue to believe in me, you will certainly remain safe" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-doublenegatives]])

# If you do not remain

"Unless you remain"

# translationWords

* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/lordyahweh]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/head]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/aram]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/damascus]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/peoplegroup]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/ephraim]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/samaria]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/faith]]