# house of David

The word "house" is a metonym for the family living in the house. See how you translated this in [Isaiah 7:2](./01.md). AT: "King Ahaz, you and your counselors" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metonymy]])

# Is it not enough for you people to test the patience of people? Must you also test the patience of my God?

These questions emphasize that the king has sinned greatly. AT: "You test the patience of people! Now you even test the patience of my God!" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-rquestion]])

# the young woman will conceive

Some ancient versions and some contemporary versions translate, "the virgin will conceive," while others translate "the young woman will conceive."

# his name Immanuel

Translators may add a footnote that says: "The name Immanuel means 'God with us.'" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/translate-names]])

# He will eat curds and honey when he knows to refuse the evil and choose the good

Possible meanings are 1) "By the time that child is old enough to eat curds and honey, he will be able to reject what is evil and choose what is good." This emphasizes that the child will be very young when he knows to choose what is right instead of wrong or 2) "By the time the child is old enough to reject what is evil and choose what is good, he will be eating curds and honey." The people of Judah considered a child to be responsible for doing what is right when he was 12 years old. This emphasizes that within twelve years the people will be able to eat much curds and honey because most of the people of Israel will be killed or taken as captives. (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-explicit]])

# curds

milk that people have treated to make it into a soft solid

# refuse the evil and choose the good

Here "the evil" and "the good" refer to evil and good things in general. AT: "refuse to do evil deeds and choose to do good deeds" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-nominaladj]])

# translationWords

* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/names/isaiah]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/house]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/names/david]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/test]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/patient]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/lord]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/sign]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/honey]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/evil]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/good]]