# angel of Yahweh

Possible meaning are 1) "angel who represents Yahweh" or 2) "messenger who serves Yahweh" or 3) it may refer to Yahweh himself, who looked like an angel as he talked to a person. Either one of these meanings would explain the angel's use of "I" as if Yahweh himself were talking.

# went up from Gilgal to Bokim

"left Gilgal and went to Bokim"

# Bokim

This is what the Israelites named this place in 2:5 after the angel rebukes the people. "Bokim" means "crying." (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/translate-names]])

# and said

It is understood that the angel of Yahweh is speaking to the people of Israel. AT: "and said to the people of Israel" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-ellipsis]])

# brought you up from Egypt

"led you from Egypt"

# your fathers

"your ancestors" or "your forefathers"

# break my covenant with you

This is an idiom. AT: "fail to do what I said I would do for you" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-idiom]])

# you have not listened to my voice

Here "voice" represents what Yahweh said. AT: "you have not obeyed my commands" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metonymy]])

# What is this that you have done?

This question is asked to cause the people of Israel to realize they have disobeyed Yahweh and will suffer because of it. AT: "You have done a terrible thing." (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-rquestion]])

# translationWords

* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/angel]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/yahweh]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/names/gilgal]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/names/egypt]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/oath]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/father]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/covenant]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/altar]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/voice]]