# Now when Joshua

Here "Now" is used here to mark a break in the main story line. Here the narrator begins a summary that explains how the generations of Israelites after Joshua sinned and worshiped false gods so that Yahweh punished them, but then he would send judges to rescue them. This summary ends in 2:23.

# when Joshua ... died at the age of 110 years old

The events of 1:1-2:5 happened after Joshua died. This is recounting events that happened at the end of the book of Joshua.

# to the place assigned

This statement can be made clearer. AT: "to the place Yahweh gave them" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-explicit]])

# during the lifetime

This means the time that someone lived. AT: "during the life"

# the elders

Here this means the men who helped lead Israel, participating in matters of social justice and in religious matters such as maintaining the law of Moses.

# outlived him

This means to live longer than someone else. AT: "lived longer than he did"

# Nun

This is the name of a man. (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/translate-names]])

# 110 years old

"one hundred and ten years old" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/translate-numbers]])

# translationWords

* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/names/joshua]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/send]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/israel]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/serve]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/yahweh]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/elder]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/works]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/death]]