# The anger of Yahweh burned against Israel

The anger of Yahweh is described as burning like a fire. See how you translated this phrase in [Judges 2:14](./14.md). (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metaphor]])

# this nation has broken

Here "nation" represents the people. AT: "these people have broken" or "the Israelites have broken" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metonymy]])

# fathers

Here this refers to the ancestors of a certain person or people group.

# they have not listened to my voice

Here "voice" represents what Yahweh said. AT: "they have not obeyed what I commanded them" or "they have not obeyed me" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metonymy]])

# any of the nations

Here "nations" represents the people groups that lived in Canaan before the Israelites. (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metonymy]])

# they will keep the way of Yahweh and walk in it

How Yahweh wants people to live or behave is spoken of as if it were a way or road. A person obeying Yahweh is spoken of as if they were walking in his way. (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metaphor]])

# did not drive them out quickly and give them into the hand of Joshua

These two phrases mean the same thing and can be combined. AT: "he did not let Joshua quickly conquer them and drive them out" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-doublet]])

# into the hand of Joshua

Here "hand" is a metonym for power, and "Joshua" represents himself and his army. AT: "into the power of Joshua and his army" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metonymy]] and [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-synecdoche]])

# translationWords

* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/israel]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/nation]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/covenant]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/father]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/voice]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/castout]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/joshua]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/test]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/walk]]