# Connecting Statement:

Job continues speaking.

# he knows the way that I take

Job's actions are spoken of as if he is walking on a path. AT: "God knows what I do" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metaphor]])

# I will come out like gold

Job believes that the test will prove that he is as pure as refined gold. AT: "he will see that I am as pure as gold when anything not pure has been burned away" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-simile]])

# My foot has held fast to his steps

Here "My foot" refers to Job. AT: "I have followed the path he has shown me" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-synecdoche]])

# I have kept to his way

Job's obedience is spoken of as if he is walking in a path that God showed him. AT: "I have done what he told me to do" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metaphor]])

# turned not aside

This can be stated in positive form. AT: "followed it exactly"

# I have not gone back from

This can be stated in positive form. AT: "I have always obeyed"

# of his lips

This phrase refers to the message that God spoke. AT: "that he spoke" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metonymy]])

# the words of his mouth

Here God is represented by his "mouth." AT: "what he said" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-synecdoche]])

# translationWords

* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/know]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/test]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/gold]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/turn]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/command]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/word]]