# On the twenty-fourth day of the first month

This is the first month of the Hebrew calendar. The twenty-fourth day is near the middle of April on Western calendars. (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/translate-hebrewmonths]] and [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/translate-ordinal]])

# with a belt around his waist

"and he was wearing a belt"

# Uphaz

Uphaz is a place. Its location is not known (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/translate-names]])

# His body was like topaz

His body gleamed with blue or yellow light as if it were made of topaz. AT: "his body gleamed like topaz" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-simile]])

# topaz

a blue or yellow gemstone, also known as beryl, peridot, or chrysolite

# his face was like lightning

His face shone brightly as a bolt of lightning shines. AT: "his face shone with light as bright as the flash of lightning" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-simile]])

# His eyes were like flaming torches

His eyes were bright with light as if they were flaming torches. AT: "his eyes were so bright that it seemed they had torches burning inside them" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-simile]])

# his arms and his feet were like polished bronze

His arms and feet were as shiny as if they were made of polished bronze. AT: "his arms and feet shone like polished bronze that reflects the light around it" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-simile]])

# The sound of his words was like the sound of a great crowd

His voice was so loud that it was as if a crowd of people were all talking loudly. AT: "his voice was as loud as a huge crowd all calling out together" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-simile]])

# translationWords

* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/biblicaltimeday]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/gold]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/bronze]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/word]]