# Suppose that I shut up the heavens so that there is no rain

Here "heavens" refers to the sky, and is spoken of as if it were a building in which God stores the rain. See how you translated a similar phrase in [2 Chronicles 6:26](../06/26.md). AT: "Suppose that I do not allow the rain to fall from the skies" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metaphor]])

# devour the land

The word "land" represents the plants and crops on the land. (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metonymy]])

# if I send disease among my people

Here "send disease" represents causing diseases. AT: "if I cause my people to have diseases" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metaphor]])

# who are called by my name

Here being called by God's name is an idiom meaning belonging to God. AT: "who belong to me" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-idiom]])

# seek my face

Here God's face represents his acceptance of them. Possible meanings are "seek my face" represents 1) urgently asking him for forgiveness. AT: "beg me to forgive them" or 2) strongly wanting to please him. AT: "choose to please me" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metaphor]])

# turn from their wicked ways

Here "turn from" is a metaphor meaning to stop doing something, and "ways" represent behavior. AT: "stop their wicked behavior" or "stop doing wicked things" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metaphor]])

# heal their land

Here land that does not produce much is spoken of as though it were sick. AT: "make their land good again" or "make their land produce good crops" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-personification]])

# my eyes will be open

The eyes being open is a metonym for seeing. Here it represents looking attentively. AT: "I will pay attention to you" or "I will watch you" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metonymy]])

# my ears attentive to the prayers

The ears being attentive is a metonym for listening attentively. AT: "I will listen to the prayers" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metonymy]])

# the prayers that are made in this place

This can be expressed in active form. AT: "to the prayers that you make in this place" or "to you as you pray to me in this place" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-activepassive]])

# translationWords

* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/heaven]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/command]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/devour]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/peopleofgod]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/call]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/name]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/humble]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/face]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/turn]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/evil]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/forgive]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/sin]]