# that my name may be there forever

Possible meanings are 1) God's name represents himself. AT: "that I may be there forever" or 2) God's name represents Yahweh's reputation, and his name being there represents people worshiping him there. AT: "for people to worship me there forever" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metonymy]])

# My eyes and my heart will be there every day

Here "My eyes" represents God's careful attention, and "my heart" represents his love. These being at his temple implies that he will protect his temple. AT: "I will watch and protect it forever" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metonymy]] and [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-explicit]])

# As for you

Here "you" refers to King Solomon.

# if you walk before me as David your father walked

Here walking is a metaphor for living. Walking before God represents living in obedience to him. AT: "If you obey me as David your father did" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metaphor]])

# David your father

Solomon was one of David's sons.

# keeping my statutes and my decrees

"obeying my statutes and my decrees"

# I will establish the throne of your kingdom

Here the throne represents ruling. Establishing the throne of Solomon's kingdom represents causing Solomon to have descendants who will rule over Israel. AT: "I will make descendants of yours rule over your kingdom" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metonymy]])

# A descendant of yours will never fail to be ruler in Israel

This can be stated positively. AT: "One of your descendants will always be ruler in Israel" or "Descendants of yours will always rule in Israel"

# translationWords

* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/setapart]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/eternity]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/command]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/statute]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/decree]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/kingdom]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/covenant]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/descendant]]