# But if you turn away

Here "turn away" from God is a metaphor meaning to stop worshiping him. AT: "But if you stop worshiping me" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metaphor]])

# you turn away

Possible meanings are that the word "you" refers 1) to all the people of Israel, or 2) to Solomon and his descendants.

# my statutes and my commandments

Here the words "commandments" and "statutes" mean basically the same thing and emphasize all that Yahweh has commanded. (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-doublet]])

# I will uproot them from out of my ground that I have given them

The word "them" refers to the people of Israel. God speaks of making his people leave his land as if they were plants that he would pull up by their roots out of the soil. AT: "I will make them leave the land I have given them" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metaphor]])

# This house

This refers to the temple.

# that I have set apart for my name

Possible meanings are 1) Yahweh's name represents himself. AT: "that I have set apart for myself" or 2) Yahweh's name represents his reputation. AT: "that I have set apart for my reputation" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metonymy]])

# I will cast away from before me

God speaks of rejecting his temple as if he were to throw it far away from himself. AT: "I will reject it" or "I will ignore it" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metaphor]])

# I will make it a proverb and a joke among all the peoples

"I will cause all the peoples to make proverbs and jokes about it" or "because of what I do to it, all the nations will mock and ridicule it"

# translationWords

* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/turn]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/forsaken]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/statute]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/command]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/worship]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/setapart]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/proverb]]