# Connecting Statement:

In verse 11 the writer begins his third warning. He warns these believers that they are still not mature and encourages them to learn God's word so they can understand right from wrong.

# He was made perfect

This can be stated in active form. AT: "God made him perfect" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-activepassive]])

# made perfect

Here this means being made mature, able to honor God in all aspects of life.

# became, for everyone who obeys him, the cause of eternal salvation

The abstract noun "salvation" can be stated as a verb. AT: "now he saves all who obey him and causes them to live forever" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-abstractnouns]])

# He was designated by God

This can be stated in active form. AT: "God designated him" or "God appointed him" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-activepassive]])

# after the manner of Melchizedek

This means that Christ as a priest has things in common with Melchizedek as a priest. AT: "to be the sort of high priest that Melchizedek was"

# We have much to say

Even though the author uses the plural pronoun "we," he is most likely referring only to himself. AT: "I have much to say" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-pronouns]])

# you have become dull in hearing

The ability to understand and obey is spoken of as if it were the ability to listen. And the ability to listen is spoken of as if it were a metal tool that becomes dull with use. AT: "you have trouble understanding it" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metaphor]])

# translationWords

* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/perfect]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/eternity]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/save]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/highpriest]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/names/melchizedek]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/jesus]]