# General Information:

Isaiah speaks to the people of Judah in the form of a poem. (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-parallelism]])

# Why are you still being beaten? Why do you rebel more and more?

Isaiah uses these questions to scold the people of Judah. The questions can be translated as statements. This can also be stated in active form. AT: "You keep doing things that Yahweh has to punish you for. You continue to rebel against him." (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-rquestion]] and [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-activepassive]])

# you

Here the word "you" refers to the people who live in Judah and so is plural. (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-you]])

# The whole head is sick, the whole heart is weak

This metaphor compares the nation of Israel to a person who has been beaten. AT: "You are like someone whose head is wounded and whose heart is weak" or "You are like someone whose whole mind and heart are sick" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metaphor]])

# there is no part unharmed

This can be stated positively. It can also be stated in active form. AT: "every part of you has been harmed" or "someone has harmed every part of you" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-doublenegatives]])

# they have not been closed, cleansed, bandaged, nor treated with oil

This metaphor compares the punishment God has given Israel to physical wounds. It can be stated in active form. AT: "no one has closed, cleansed, bandaged, or treated them with oil" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metaphor]] and [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-activepassive]])