# General Information:

Isaiah speaks to the people of Judah in the form of a poem. (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-parallelism]])

# Your country is ruined

This can be stated in active form. AT: "They have ruined your country" or "Your enemies have ruined your country" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-activepassive]])

# your cities are burned

This can be stated in active form. AT: "they have burned your cities" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-activepassive]])

# your fields—in your presence, strangers are destroying them

"people who are not from your own country steal the crops from your fields while you watch"

# abandoned devastation

"empty and devastated." This abstract noun phrase can be expressed as verb phrases. AT: "they have destroyed the land and no one lives there" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-abstractnouns]])

# overthrown by strangers

This can be stated in active form. AT: "strangers have overthrown your country" or "a foreign army has completely conquered it" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-activepassive]])

# The daughter of Zion is left

This can be stated in active form. AT: "I have left the daughter of Zion" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-activepassive]])

# The daughter of Zion

The "daughter" of a city means the people of the city. AT: "The people of Zion" or "The people who live in Zion" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-idiom]])

# is left like a hut in a vineyard, like a shed in a garden of cucumbers

Possible meanings are 1) "has become as small as a hut in a vineyard or a shed in a garden of cucumbers" or 2) "is left the way a farmer leaves a hut in a vineyard or a shed in a garden of cucumbers when he is finished with them" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-simile]] and [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-explicit]])

# like ... cucumbers, like a besieged city

Another possible meaning is "like ... cucumbers. She is a besieged city"