# General Information:

Yahweh continues to speak to the people of Judah.

# Come now, and let

Yahweh graciously and lovingly invites the people to listen to what he is about to say. "Please listen to me. Let" or "Pay attention; I want to help you. Let"

# let us reason together

"let us think about this together" or "we need to discuss this" or "what are we going to do?" Yahweh invites the people to discuss the future. Here the word "us" refers to Yahweh and includes the people of Judah. (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-inclusive]])

# though your sins are like scarlet, they will be white like snow; though they are red like crimson, they will be like wool

Isaiah is speaking of the people as if they were wearing clothes that were supposed to be white wool and of their sins as if they were red stains on the clothes. If Yahweh forgives their sins, it will be as if their clothes become white again. (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metaphor]])

# like scarlet

Scarlet is a bright red color. AT: "bright red" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-simile]])

# white like snow

White is often a symbol for holiness or purity. "Snow" refers to something like frozen rain that is very white. Since this simply describes something as very white, you could replace it with something else that is white: "white as a seashell" or "white as a dove." This means that their sins will be forgiven. (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-simile]])

# red like crimson

Crimson is a dark red color. AT: "dark red" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-simile]])

# like wool

Wool is the hair of a sheep or goat. How they will be like wool can be made explicit. AT: "white like wool" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-explicit]] and [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-simile]])

# translationWords

* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/yahweh]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/sin]]