# General Information:

Isaiah speaks to the people of Judah in the form of a poem. (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-parallelism]])

# How the faithful city

This exclamation shows Isaiah's anger and sadness about the people of Jerusalem. AT: "See how the people of Jerusalem, who had been faithful to God" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metonymy]])

# has become a prostitute

Isaiah compared the people to a woman who is not loyal to her husband but who sleeps with other men for money. The people were no longer loyal to God but were worshiping false gods. AT: "acts like a prostitute" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metaphor]])

# She who was full of justice

The word "she" refers to Jerusalem and its people. Those who wrote the Bible often refer to cities as women. AT: "The people of Jerusalem were fair and did what was right" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metaphor]])

# but now she is full of murderers

The word "she" refers to Jerusalem and its people. Those who wrote the Bible often refer to cities as women. AT: "but now the people of Jerusalem are murderers" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metaphor]])

# Your silver has become impure, your wine mixed with water

Possible meanings are that Isaiah uses silver and wine as metaphors for 1) the people of Jerusalem. AT: "You are like silver that is no longer pure, and like wine that is mixed with water," or 2) the good deeds that the people formerly did. AT: "You used to do good deeds, but now your bad deeds make your good deeds worthless." (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metaphor]])

# silver ... impure

Someone needs to clean silver often or it will no longer shine brightly.

# wine ... water

Wine with water in it has little taste and so is no better than water.

# translationWords

* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/faithful]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/prostitute]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/justice]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/righteous]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/wine]]