# General Information:

Isaiah begins to speak Yahweh's words to the people of Judah in the form of a poem. (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-parallelism]])

# Therefore

"For that reason"

# this is the declaration of the Lord Yahweh of hosts, the Mighty One of Israel

Yahweh speaks of himself by name to express the certainty of what he is declaring. AT: "this is what the Lord Yahweh of hosts, the Mighty One of Israel, has declared" or "this is what I, Yahweh, the Mighty One of Israel, have declared" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-123person]])

# I will take vengeance against my adversaries, and avenge myself against my enemies

Both of these phrases mean basically the same thing. The words "take vengeance against my adversaries" speak more of Yahweh doing whatever he needs to do to those who work against him so he can be happy. The words "avenge myself against my enemies" speak more of Yahweh justly punishing his enemies. AT: "I will punish those who opposed me" or "I will do what pleases me to those who work against me, and I will justly punish my enemies" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-parallelism]])

# I will turn my hand against you

Here "hand" refers to God's power which he would use to punish his people. AT: "I will begin to use all my power against you" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metonymy]])

# refine away your dross as with lye

Here the process in which God removes his people's sin is spoken of as if her were separating metal from the bad things mixed with it. The words "as with lye" adds another metaphor, because lye is used in soap, not in refining metal. AT: "and like fire removing the dirt from silver, I will remove all the evil from among you" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metaphor]])

# dross

This is the dirt and other things that people remove from metals so the metal will be pure.

# translationWords

* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/lordgod]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/yahwehofhosts]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/mighty]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/israel]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/avenge]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/adversary]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/hand]]