# He is a shield to everyone who takes refuge in him

A shield protects a soldier. David speaks as if God were a shield protecting him. See how you translated this in [Psalms 3:3](../003/003.md). AT: "You, Yahweh, protect like a shield everyone who takes refuge in you" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metaphor]])

# For who is God except Yahweh? Who is a rock except our God?

The implied answer is no one. AT: "Only Yahweh is God! Only our God is a rock!" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-rquestion]])

# a rock

David speaks of Yahweh as if he were a rock that he could climb to get away from his enemies. See how you translated this in [Psalms 18:2](./002.md). (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metaphor]])

# puts strength on me like a belt

God gives strength to David as if it were a piece of clothing. (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-simile]])

# places the blameless person on his path

Here David speaks of living a life that is pleasing to God as if he were being placed on the right path. AT: "causes the blameless person to live a righteous life" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metaphor]])

# translationWords

* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/god]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/perfect]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/word]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/yahweh]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/purify]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/shield]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/refuge]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/strength]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/blameless]]