# General Information:

Parallelism is common in Hebrew poetry. (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/writing-poetry]] and [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-parallelism]])

# A maschil of Asaph

"This is a maschil that Asaph wrote."

# A maschil

This may refer to a style of music. See how you translated this in [Psalms 32:1](../032/001.md).

# God, why have you rejected us forever?

This can be translated as a statement. AT: "God, we have done nothing wrong, but you have rejected us forever!" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-rquestion]])

# Why does your anger burn against the sheep of your pasture?

This can be translated as a statement. AT: "We are the ones you have promised to care for, and we have done nothing wrong, but now you are angry with us!" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-rquestion]])

# the sheep of your pasture

Asaph speaks of the people of Israel as if they were sheep. AT: "against Israel, who are like the sheep whom you feed in your pasture" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metaphor]])

# Call to mind

"Pay attention to." God has not forgotten his people, but he does not seem to be thinking about them.

# your own heritage

"yours forever"

# translationWords

* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/asaph]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/god]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/reject]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/forever]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/angry]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/sheep]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/call]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/mind]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/peopleofgod]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/redeem]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/zion]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/life]]