# General Information:

Verses 1:2-18 refer to Yahweh's judgment. Verses 1:4-16 describe Yahweh's judgment on the people of Judah.

# General Information:

In verses 1:8-13, Yahweh is speaking. He alternates between using first person and speaking about himself in the third person. (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-123person]])

# Be silent

This is an idiom. Here silence is meant to signal shock and amazement. AT: "Be shocked" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-idiom]])

# Yahweh has prepared the sacrifice and set apart his guests

The people of Judah are spoken of as Yahweh's sacrifice, and the enemy nations are spoken of as his guests who would eat the sacrifice. This can be stated explicitly. AT: "Yahweh has prepared the people of Judah as a sacrifice, and invited the enemy nations as his guests" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metaphor]] and [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-explicit]])

# set apart his guests

Here "set apart" is an idiom that means he has invited them. (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-idiom]])

# It will come about

This phrase is used to mark the point at which Yahweh's judgment of Judah will begin.

# everyone dressed in foreign clothes

This phrase suggests that the Israelites wore clothes similar to the foreigners to show sympathy to their customs and to the worship of their foreign gods. AT: "everyone who worships foreign gods" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-explicit]])

# On that day

"On the day of Yahweh"

# all those who leap over the threshold

Possible meanings are 1) this is a reference to people who did not step on thresholds as part of their worship of a god called Dagan or 2) people who leapt up onto platforms to worship pagan idols or 3) royal officials who climbed the steps to the throne.

# fill their master's house with violence and deceit

The abstract nouns "violence" and "deceit" can be stated as actions. AT: "those who do violent things and tell lies in the temples of their gods"

# translationWords

* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/lordyahweh]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/dayofthelord]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/sacrifice]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/setapart]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/punish]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/prince]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/king]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/lord]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/deceive]]