# General Information:

Verses 1:2-18 refer to Yahweh's judgment. Verses 1:4-16 describe Yahweh's judgment on the people of Judah.

# General Information:

In verses 1:8-13, Yahweh is speaking. He alternates between using first person and speaking about himself in the third person. (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-123person]])

# on that day

"on the day of Yahweh." See how you translated this phrase in [Zephaniah 1:9](./07.md).

# Yahweh's declaration

Yahweh speaks of himself by name to express the certainty of what he is declaring. AT: "what Yahweh has declared" or "what Yahweh has solemnly said" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-123person]])

# Fish Gate

The Fish Gate was one of the gates in the Jerusalem city wall.

# wailing from the Second District

"Mourn loudly from the Second District." The Second District was a newer part of Jerusalem.

# a great crashing sound

This refers to the sound of buildings collapsing. This can be stated explicitly. AT: "a loud sound of buildings collapsing" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-explicit]])

# from the hills

This refers to the hills surrounding Jerusalem.

# for all the merchants will be ruined; all those who weigh out silver will be cut off

These two phrases refer to the same people and are used to emphasize that business will be destroyed. AT: "for those who buy and sell goods will be killed" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-parallelism]])

# those who weigh out silver

This refers to merchants. Before coins were used, people weighed out silver or gold as payment for things they bought.

# cut off

Destroying is spoken of as if it were cutting something off from what it was a part of. See how you translated this in [Zephaniah 1:3](./01.md). AT: "destroyed" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metaphor]])