# General Information:

Verses 1:2-18 refer to Yahweh's judgment. Verses 1:4-16 describe Yahweh's judgment on the people of Judah.

# near, near and hurrying quickly

The repetition of the word "near," along with the phrase "hurrying quickly," emphasize that the day when Yahweh judges the people will soon happen. AT: "close and will be here soon" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-doublet]])

# the day of Yahweh

See how you translated this phrase in [Zephaniah 1:7](./07.md).

# a warrior crying bitterly

Possible meanings are 1) a soldier crying in despair or 2) a soldier's battle cry.

# That day ... a day

These phrases refer back to the "day of Yahweh" in verse 14.

# That day will be a day of fury ... battlements

Verses 15-16 have multiple figures of speech that together emphasize the destructive nature of this final judgment by God.

# a day of distress and anguish

The words "distress" and "anguish" mean about the same thing and emphasize the intensity of the people's distress. AT: "a day when people feel terrible distress" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-doublet]])

# a day of storm and devastation

Here the word "storm" refers to divine judgment. The word "devastation" describes the effects of that judgment. AT: "a day of devastating storms" or "a day of devastating judgment" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-doublet]] and [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metonymy]])

# a day of darkness and gloom

The words "darkness" and "gloom" share similar meanings and emphasize the intensity of darkness. Both words refer to a time of disaster or divine judgment. AT: "a day that is full of darkness" or "a day of terrible judgment" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-doublet]] and [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metonymy]])

# a day of clouds and thick darkness

This phrase means the same thing as, and intensifies, the idea of the previous phrase. Like that phrase, both "clouds" and "thick darkness" refer to divine judgment. AT: "a day full of dark storm clouds" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-doublet]] and [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metonymy]])

# a day of trumpets and alarms

The words "trumpets" and "alarms" mean basically the same thing here. Both are means to call soldiers to prepare for battle. AT: "a day when people sound the alarm for battle" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-doublet]])

# fortified cities and the high battlements

These two phrases both refer to military strongholds. AT: "well fortified cities" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-doublet]])

# translationWords

* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/dayofthelord]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/darkness]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/trumpet]]