# That day ... a day

These phrases refer back to the "day of Yahweh" in verse 14.

# That day will be a day of fury ... battlements

Verses 15-16 have multiple figures of speech that together emphasize the destructive nature of this final judgment by God.

# a day of distress and anguish

The words "distress" and "anguish" mean about the same thing and emphasize the intensity of the people's distress. Alternate translation: "a day when people feel terrible distress" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-doublet]])

# a day of storm and devastation

Here the word "storm" refers to divine judgment. The word "devastation" describes the effects of that judgment. Alternate translation: "a day of devastating storms" or "a day of devastating judgment" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-doublet]] and [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metonymy]])

# a day of darkness and gloom

The words "darkness" and "gloom" share similar meanings and emphasize the intensity of darkness. Both words refer to a time of disaster or divine judgment. Alternate translation: "a day that is full of darkness" or "a day of terrible judgment" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-doublet]] and [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metonymy]])

# a day of clouds and thick darkness

This phrase means the same thing as, and intensifies, the idea of the previous phrase. Like that phrase, both "clouds" and "thick darkness" refer to divine judgment. Alternate translation: "a day full of dark storm clouds" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-doublet]] and [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metonymy]])

