# General Information:

The person who composed this psalm continues to speak.

# My soul can return to its resting place

The writer speaks of having peace and confidence as if it were a place where his soul can rest. The word "soul" represents the person. AT: "I can rest in peace again" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metaphor]] and [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-synecdoche]])

# you rescued my life from death

Here the word "you" refers to Yahweh. The word "life" represents the person. AT: "you have saved me from death" or "you have kept me from dying" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metonymy]])

# my eyes from tears

The verbal phrase may be supplied from the previous phrase to make the meaning clear. AT: "you have rescued my eyes from tears" or "you have kept me from crying" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-ellipsis]])

# my feet from stumbling

The verbal phrase may be supplied from the previous phrase to make the meaning clear. The feet here represent the person. Stumbling here probably represents being killed by his enemies. AT: "you have rescued me from stumbling" or "you have kept me from being killed by my enemies" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-synecdoche]] and [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metaphor]] and [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-ellipsis]])

# translationWords

* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/soul]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/return]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/rest]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/good]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/death]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/stumble]]