# blameless and honest

The words "blameless" and "honest" are very similar in meaning and are used together to strenghten the idea. AT: "completely innocent" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-doublet]])

# so that you may shine as lights in the world

Light represents goodness and truth. Shining as lights in the world represents living in a good and righteous way so that people in the world can see that God is good and true. AT:  "so that you will be like lights in the world" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metaphor]])

# in the world, in the middle of a crooked and depraved generation

Here the word "world" refers to the people of the world. The words "crooked" and "depraved" are used together to emphasize that the people are very sinful. AT: "in the world, among people who are very sinful" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-doublet]])

# Hold tightly to the word of life

"Hold tightly" represents firmly believing. AT: "Continue to firmly believe the word of life"  (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metaphor]])

# the word of life

"the message that brings life" or "the message that shows how to live the way God wants you to"

# to glory

"to rejoice" or "to be very glad"

# on the day of Christ

This refers to when Jesus comes back to set up his kingdom and rule over the earth. AT: "when Christ returns"

# I did not run in vain or labor in vain

The phrases "run in vain" and "labor in vain" here mean the same thing. Paul uses them together to emphasize how hard he has worked to help people believe in Christ. AT: "I did not work so hard for nothing" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-parallelism]])

# run

The scriptures often use the image of walking  to represent conducting one's life. Running is living life intensively. (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metaphor]])

# translationWords

* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/blameless]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/children]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/world]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/generation]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/word]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/glory]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/run]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/labor]]