# he walked in the way of the kings of Israel

Walking represents behavior and actions. AT: "King Ahaz acted the same way that the kings of Israel had acted" or "he did the things that the kings of Israel had done" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metaphor]])

# following the detestable practices of the nations

Here "following" represents doing what others do. AT: "copying the disgusting things that the other nations did, the nations" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metaphor]])

# the nations

The word "nations" represents the people of other nations. Here it refers to the people of the nations who had lived in that land. AT: "the people of other nations" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metonymy]])

# which Yahweh had driven out

"Drive out" means "force out." AT: "which Yahweh had forced to leave"

# before the people of Israel

The people of those nations fled as the people of Israel moved into the land. The full meaning of this statement can be made explicit. AT: "before the people of Israel who moved into the land" or "as the people of Israel moved into the land" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-explicit]])

# the high places, on the hilltops, and under every green tree

These are places where the people of the other nations worshiped their false gods.

# under every green tree

God wanted his people to offer sacrifices to him in Jerusalem. The word "every" here is an exaggeration to show how determined King Ahaz was to disobey God by offering sacrifices in many other places instead. AT: "under many green trees" or "under many green trees around the country" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-hyperbole]])

# translationWords

* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/walk]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/kingdomofisrael]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/fire]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/burntoffering]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/nation]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/sacrifice]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/incense]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/highplaces]]