# Connecting Statement:

Jesus continues teaching, but he directs his attention back to his disciples. This is still the same part of the story and the same day that began in [Luke 15:3](../15/03.md).

# It is certain there will be things that can cause us to sin

"Things that tempt people to sin will certainly happen"

# to that person through whom they come

"to anyone who causes the temptations to come" or "to any person who causes people to be tempted"

# It would be better for him if

This introduces a hypothetical situation. It means that this person's punishment for causing people to sin will be worse than if they had drowned in the sea. (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-hypo]])

# if a millstone were put around his neck and he were thrown

This can be stated in active form. AT: "if they were to put a millstone around his neck and throw him" or "if someone were to put a heavy stone around his neck and push him" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-activepassive]])

# for him ... his neck ... he were ... he should

These terms refer to women as well as to men. (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-gendernotations]])

# a millstone

This is a very large, heavy circular stone used for grinding wheat grain into flour. AT: "a heavy stone"

# these little ones

This here refers to people whose faith is still weak. AT: "these people whose faith is small"

# to stumble

This was a way of referring to unintentional sin. AT: "to sin"

# translationWords

* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/jesus]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/disciple]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/sin]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/woe]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/stumble]]