# It would be better for him if a millstone were put around his neck and he were thrown into the sea than that he should cause one of these little ones to stumble.

You may need to make explicit that it is the punishment for causing people to sin that Jesus is comparing to being thrown into the sea. AT: "I will not punish him a little by putting a millstone around his neck and throwing him into the sea. Instead, I will punish him much. This is because he has caused one of these little ones to stumble." (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-explicit]])

# It would be better for him if

This introduces a hypothetical situation. It means that this person's punishment for causing people to sin will be worse than if they had drowned in the sea. No one has put a stone around his neck, and Jesus is not saying that anyone will do so. (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-hypo]])

# a millstone were put around his neck and he were thrown

This can be stated in active form. AT: "if they were to put a millstone around his neck and throw him" or "if someone were to put a heavy stone around his neck and push him" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-activepassive]])

# for him ... his neck ... he were ... he should

These words can refer to anyone, to women as well as to men. (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-gendernotations]])

# a millstone

This is a very large, heavy circular stone used for grinding wheat grain into flour. AT: "a heavy stone"

# these little ones

This here refers to people whose faith is still weak. AT: "these people whose faith is small"

# to stumble

This was a way of referring to unintentional sin. AT: "to sin"

