# General Information:

This is the next part of the story. Jesus heals 10 men of leprosy. Verses 11 and 12 give background information and the setting of the story. (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/writing-background]])

# It came about that

This phrase is used here to mark the beginning of a new part of the story. If your language has a way for doing this, you could consider using it here. (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/writing-newevent]])

# as he traveled to Jerusalem

"as Jesus and the disciples were traveling to Jerusalem"

# a certain village

This phrase does not identify the village.

# there he was met by ten men who were lepers

This can be stated in active form. AT: "ten men who were lepers met him" or "ten men who had leprosy met him" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-activepassive]])

# They stood far away from him

This was a respectful gesture, because lepers were not allowed to approach other people. (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-explicit]])

# they lifted up their voices

This idiom means to speak loudly. AT: "they called with a loud voice" or "they called aloud" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-idiom]])

# have mercy on us

They were specifically asking to be healed. AT: "please show us mercy by healing us" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-explicit]])

# translationWords

* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/names/jerusalem]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/names/samaria]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/names/galilee]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/leprosy]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/voice]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/jesus]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/lord]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/mercy]]