# Connecting Statement:

This is the end of the part of the story about Jesus healing the 10 lepers.

# Then Jesus said

Jesus responded to what the man did, but he was speaking to the group of people around him. AT: "So Jesus said to the crowd" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-explicit]])

# Were not the ten cleansed?

This is the first of three rhetorical questions. Jesus used them to show the people around him how surprised and disappointed he was that only one of the ten men came back to glorify God. AT: "Ten men were healed." or "God healed ten men." (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-rquestion]])

# Where are the nine?

"Why did not the other nine come back?" This can be a statement. AT: "The other nine men should have come back, too" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-rquestion]])

# Were there no others who returned to give glory to God, except this foreigner?

This can be a statement. AT: "No one but this foreigner came back to give glory to God!" or "God healed ten men, yet only this foreigner came back to give glory to God!" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-rquestion]])

# this foreigner

Samaritans had non-Jewish ancestors and they did not worship God in the same way that the Jews did.

# Your faith has made you well

"Because of your faith you have become well." The idea of "faith" can be expressed with the verb "believe." AT: "Because you believe, you are well again" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-abstractnouns]])

# translationWords

* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/glory]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/foreigner]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/faith]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/heal]]