# Connecting Statement:

Jesus begins to teach his disciples.

# The days are coming when

The idea of days days coming represents something being soon. AT: "A time is coming when" or "Soon" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metaphor]])

# you will desire to see

"you will want very much to see" or "you will wish to experience"

# one of the days of the Son of Man

This refers to the kingdom of God. AT: "one of the days when the Son of Man will rule as king" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-explicit]])

# the Son of Man

Jesus is speaking about himself. (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-123person]])

# but you will not see it

"you will not experience it"

# Look, there! Look, here!

This refers to seeking the Messiah. AT: "Look, the Messiah is over there! He is over here!" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-explicit]])

# do not go out or run after them

The purpose of going out can be stated clearly. AT: "do not go with them to see it" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-explicit]])

# for as the lightning shines brightly

The coming of the Son of Man will be clear and sudden, like the appearance of lightning. AT: "for as the lightning is visible to everyone when it appears and" or "for as the lightning appears suddenly" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-simile]])

# so will the Son of Man be in his day

This refers to the future kingdom of God. AT: "it will be like that on the day when the Son of Man comes to reign" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-explicit]])