# But first he must suffer

"But first the Son of Man must suffer." Jesus is speaking about himself in the third person. (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-123person]])

# be rejected by this generation

This can be stated in active form. AT: "the people of this generation must reject him" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-activepassive]])

# As it happened in the days of Noah

The "days of Noah" refers to the time during Noah's life just before God punished the people of the world. AT: "As people were doing in the days of Noah" or "As people were doing when Noah lived"

# even so will it also happen in the days of the Son of Man

The "days of the Son of Man" refers to the period just before the Son of Man will come. AT: "people will be doing the same things in the days of the Son of Man" or "people will be doing the same things when the Son of Man is about to come"

# They ate, they drank, they married, and they were given in marriage

People were doing ordinary things. They did not know or care that God was about to judge them.

# they were given in marriage

This can be stated in active form. AT: "parents were allowing their daughters to marry men" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-activepassive]])

# the ark

"the ship" or "the barge"

# destroyed them all

This does not include Noah and his family who were in the ark. AT: "destroyed all those who were not in the boat"

# translationWords

* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/suffer]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/reject]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/generation]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/noah]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/ark]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/flood]]