# the word of Yahweh came to me, saying,

The idiom "the word of Yahweh came to" is used to introduce a special message from God. See how you translated this in [Jeremiah 1:4](../01/04.md). AT: "Yahweh gave me a message. He said" or "Yahweh spoke this message to me:" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-idiom]])

# arrogance

"pride"

# of Judah and Jerusalem

Here Judah and Jerusalem refer to the people who live there. AT: "of the people of Judah and Jerusalem" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metonymy]])

# to listen to my word

"to obey what I say"

# who walk in the hardness of their heart

This is an idiom. AT: "who are stubborn and only do the things they desire" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-idiom]])

# clings to ... cling to me

"sticks to ... stick to me" or "stays close to ... stay close to me"

# all the house of ... all the house of

"all the people of ... all the people of"

# the house of Israel

The word "house" is a metonym for the family that lives in the house. In this case it refers to the kingdom of Israel. See how you translated this in [Jeremiah 3:18](../03/17.md). AT: "Israel" or "the kingdom of Israel" or "the people of Israel" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metonymy]])

# the house of Judah

The word "house" is a metonym for the family that lives in the house. In this case it refers to the kingdom of Judah, which included the descendants of Judah and Benjamin. See how you translated this in [Jeremiah 3:18](../03/17.md). AT: "Judah" or "the kingdom of Judah" or "the people of Judah" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metonymy]])

# this is Yahweh's declaration

Yahweh speaks of himself by name to express the certainty of what he is declaring. See how you translated this in [Jeremiah 1:8](../01/07.md). AT: "this is what Yahweh has declared" or "this is what I, Yahweh, have declared" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-123person]])

# translationWords

* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/arrogant]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/names/kingdomofjudah]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/names/jerusalem]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/evil]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/peoplegroup]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/walk]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/heart]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/falsegod]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/worship]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/bow]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/house]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/names/kingdomofisrael]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/peopleofgod]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/praise]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/honor]]