# General Information:

Yahweh is continuing to talk to Jeremiah. He is telling Jeremiah what to say to the king of Judah and the king's mother.

# queen mother

the mother of the king

# for the crowns on your head, your pride and glory, have fallen off

A king and queen mother wear crowns to represent their royal positions as the king and queen mother. Also, this event has not happened yet, but it is written here as if it already has. This can be written in future tense. AT: "for you will no longer be the king and queen mother, for your crowns, your pride and glory, will fall off" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/translate-symaction]] and [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-pastforfuture]])

# The cities in the Negev will be shut up, with no one to open them

This means that the cities will be surrounded by their enemies, who will not allow anyone to go in or come out of the cities. AT: "The cities in the Negev will be shut up, and no one will be able to go into them or come out of them" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-explicit]])

# The cities in the Negev will be shut up

This can be stated in active form. AT: "Your enemies will shut the cities in the Negev up" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-activepassive]])

# All Judah will be taken captive, completely taken captive

Here "Judah" represents the people who live there. This can be stated in active form. AT: "The enemies will take all of the people of Judah captive into exile" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metonymy]] and [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-activepassive]])

# translationWords

* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/king]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/queen]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/humble]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/crown]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/proud]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/glory]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/negev]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/judah]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/exile]]