# General Information:

Yahweh is talking to the people of Jerusalem.

# Lift up your eyes and look at the ones coming from the north

Here the word "look" is an idiom that means to pay attention and be aware of what is happening. Also, "Lift up your eyes" represents looking at something. AT: "Pay attention and be aware of the ones coming from the north" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-idiom]] and [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metonymy]])

# the ones coming from the north

This refers an enemy army that will come from the north. AT: "the enemy army coming from the north" or "the enemy army marching from the north" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-explicit]])

# Where is the flock he gave to you, the flock that was so beautiful to you?

This rhetorical question is asked to emphasize that the people of Judah will be captured by the enemy armies. This question is asked as if the people of Judah had already been captured even though this has not yet happened. The question can be written as a statement and in future tense. AT: "I gave you the people of Judah to care for, like a beautiful flock of sheep, but the enemy army will capture them." (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-rquestion]] and [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-pastforfuture]])

# the flock

This speaks of the people of Judah as a "flock" of sheep to emphasize that the leaders of Judah were supposed to care for them and look after them. (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metaphor]])

# What will you say when God sets over you those you had trained to be your special allies?

This rhetorical question is used to emphasize that the people who Judah's leaders thought they were at peace with will conquer them. This question can be written as a statement. AT: "The people you thought were your friends will conquer you and rule over you." (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-rquestion]])

# Are these not the beginnings of the labor pains that will seize you just like a woman in childbirth?

Yahweh uses this rhetorical question to tell the people that their capture is just the beginning of the suffering they will go through. This question can be written as a statement. AT: "These things that you will suffer are like the beginning of the labor pains of a woman in childbirth." (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-rquestion]])