# General Information:

Yahweh continues to talk to Jeremiah. He is telling Jeremiah what to say to the king of Judah and the king's mother.

# that your skirts are raised up and you have been violated

This means that the enemy soldiers will rape the Judean women. This can be stated in active form. AT: "that the enemy soldiers will lift up the skirts of your women and rape them" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-euphemism]] and [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-activepassive]])

# Can the people of Cush change their skin color, or a leopard change its spots?

This rhetorical question is used to state an example of something that is impossible. This question can be written as a statement. Also, the understood verb "can" maybe be supplied in the second phrase. AT: "The people of Cush cannot change their skin color and a leopard cannot change its spots." (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-rquestion]] and [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-ellipsis]])

# If so, then you yourself, although accustomed to wickedness, would be able to do good

This statement is ironic because the examples about the Cushite and the leopard are impossible situations. This states that if those impossible things could happen then they could do good. AT: "Just like these things are impossible, so it is also impossible for you who always do evil to do good" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-irony]])

# I will scatter them like chaff that perishes in the desert wind

"I will scatter them like chaff that is blown away by the wind." Yahweh is saying He will scatter His people throughout the world just as chaff is scattered by the wind. (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-simile]])

# translationWords

* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/heart]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/iniquity]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/raise]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/cush]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/chaff]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/perish]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/desert]]