# this is the confidence

This refers to what Paul has just said. His confidence comes from knowing that the Corinthians are the validation of his ministry before God.

# competent in ourselves

"qualified in ourselves" or "sufficient in ourselves"

# to claim anything as coming from us

Here the word "anything" refers to anything pertaining to Paul's apostolic ministry. AT: "to claim that anything we have done in ministry comes from our own efforts" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-explicit]])

# our competence is from God

"God gives us our sufficiency"

# a covenant not of the letter

Here the word "letter" means letters of the alphabet and refers to words that people write down. The phrase alludes to the Old Testament law. AT: "a covenant not based on commands that men have written" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-synecdoche]] and [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-explicit]])

# but of the Spirit

The Holy Spirit is the one who establishes God's covenant with people. AT: "but a covenant based on what the Spirit does" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-ellipsis]])

# the letter kills

Paul speaks of the Old Testament law as a person who kills. Following that law leads to spiritual death. AT: "the written law leads to death" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-personification]] and [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-explicit]])

# translationWords

* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/confidence]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/servant]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/covenant]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/life]]