# Connecting Statement:

Paul contrasts the fading glory of the old covenant with the superiority and freedom of the new covenant. He contrasts the veil of Moses with the clarity of present revelation. The time of Moses was a less clear picture of what is now revealed.

# Now the service that produced death ... came in such glory

Paul emphasizes that although the law leads to death, it was still very glorious. (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-irony]])

# the service that produced

"the ministry of death." This refers to the Old Testament law that God gave through Moses. AT: "the ministry that causes death because it is based on the law" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-explicit]])

# engraved in letters on stones

"carved into stone with letters." This can be stated in active form. AT: "that God carved into stone with letters" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-activepassive]])

# in such glory

"in so much glory"

# This is because

"They could not look because"

# How much more glorious will be the service that the Spirit does?

Paul uses this question to emphasize that "the service that the Spirit does" must be more glorious than "the service that produced" because it leads to life. AT: "So the service that the Spirit does must be even more glorious" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-rquestion]])

# the service that the Spirit does

"the ministry of the Spirit." This refers to the new covenant, of which Paul is a minister. AT: "the ministry that gives life because it is based on the Spirit" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-explicit]])

# translationWords

* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/glory]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/israel]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/moses]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/holyspirit]]