# the service of condemnation

"the ministry of condemnation." This refers to the Old Testament law. AT: "the ministry that condemns people because it is based on the law" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-explicit]])

# how much more does the service of righteousness abound in glory!

Here the word "how" marks this phrase as an exclamation, not as a question. AT: "then the service of righteousness must abound in so much more glory!" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-exclamations]])

# the service of righteousness abound in glory

Paul speaks of "the service of righteousness" as if it were an object that could produce or multiply another object. He means that "the service of righteousness" is far more glorious than the law, which also had glory. (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metaphor]])

# the service of righteousness

"the ministry of righteousness." This refers to the new covenant, of which Paul is a minister. AT: "the ministry that makes people righteous because it is based on the Spirit" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-explicit]])

# that which was once made glorious is no longer glorious ... because of the glory that exceeds it

The Old Testament law no longer appears glorious when compared with the New Covenant, which is much more glorious.

# that which was once made glorious

This can be stated in active form. AT "the law which God once made glorious" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-activepassive]])

# in this respect

"in this way"

# that which was passing away

This refers to "the service of condemnation," which Paul speaks of as if it were an object capable of disappearing. AT: "that which was becoming useless" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metaphor]])

# translationWords

* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/serve]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/condemn]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/glory]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/righteous]]