# But their minds were closed

"But their minds were hardened." Paul speaks of the minds of the Israelite people as objects that could be closed or made hard. This expression means that they were unable to understand what they saw. AT: "But the Israelites could not understand what they saw" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metaphor]])

# For to this day ... But even today

These phrases refer to the time at which Paul was writing to the Corinthians.

# when they read the old covenant, that same veil remains

Just as the Israelites could not see the glory on Moses' face because he covered his face with a veil, there is a spiritual veil that prevents people from understanding when they read the old covenant. (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metaphor]])

# when they read the old covenant

"when they hear someone read the old covenant"

# It has not been removed, because only in Christ is it taken away

Here both occurrences of the word "it" refer to "the same veil." This can be stated in active form. AT: "No one removes the veil, because only in Christ does God remove it" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-activepassive]])

# whenever Moses is read

Here the word "Moses" refers to the Old Testament law. This can be stated in active form. AT: "whenever someone reads the Mosaic law" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metonymy]] and [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-activepassive]])

# a veil covers their hearts

Here the word "hearts" represents what people think, and the people being unable to understand the old covenant is spoken of as if they have a veil that covers their hearts the way a physical veil would cover their eyes. AT: "they are unable to understand what they are hearing" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metonymy]] and [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metaphor]])

# when a person turns to the Lord

Here "turns to" is a metaphor that means to become loyal to someone. AT: "when a person starts to worship the Lord" or "when a person starts to trust in the Lord" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metaphor]])

# the veil is taken away

God gives them the ability to understand. This can be stated in active form. AT: "God lifts the veil away" or "God gives them the ability to understand" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-activepassive]])

# translationWords

* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/mind]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/veil]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/covenant]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/christ]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/names/moses]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/heart]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/turn]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/lord]]