# General Information:

Isaiah speaks to the people of Judah.

# Yahweh is exalted

This can be stated in active form. AT: "Yahweh is greater than anyone else" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-activepassive]])

# He will fill Zion with justice and righteousness

This speaks of Yahweh ruling Zion with his justice and righteousness as if he were filling Zion with justice and righteousness. AT: "He will rule Zion with justice and righteousness" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metaphor]])

# He will be the stability in your times

This speaks of Yahweh causing his people to be secure as if he were the stability himself. The phrase "your times" refers to their lives. AT: "He will make you secure all your lives" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metaphor]] and [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metonymy]])

# abundance of salvation, wisdom, and knowledge

This refers to the things that Yahweh will give to them. The abstract noun "salvation" can be expressed with the verb "save." The abstract nouns "wisdom" and "knowledge" can be expressed with adjectives. AT: "and he will give you an abundance of salvation, wisdom, and knowledge" or "he will save you and cause you to be very wise and knowledgeable" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-ellipsis]] and [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-abstractnouns]])

# the fear of Yahweh is his treasure

This speaks of fearing Yahweh as if it were a treasure that Yahweh gives his people. AT: "revering Yahweh will be like a valuable treasure that he will give to you" or "to fear Yahweh will be as valuable to you as a treasure" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metaphor]])

# translationWords

* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/yahweh]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/exalt]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/zion]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/justice]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/righteous]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/salvation]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/wise]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/know]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/fear]]