# will I arise

To arise or stand up is a metaphor for no longer watching and thinking and instead beginning to act. AT: "will I begin to act" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metaphor]])

# now I will be lifted up; now I will be elevated

This can be stated in active form. These two phrases have basically the same meaning and emphasize Yahweh being exalted. AT: "now I will exalt myself and show that I deserve for everyone to honor me" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-activepassive]] and [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-parallelism]])

# You conceive chaff, and you give birth to stubble

This speaks of the Assyrians making plans as if they were conceiving and giving birth to their plans as a mother gives birth to a baby. This speaks of their plans being useless by comparing them to chaff. AT: "You make plans that are as useless as chaff and straw" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metaphor]])

# stubble

The dry pieces of plants that are left in the ground after the stalks have been cut.

# your breath is a fire that will consume you

Here the Assyrians' plans are referred to as their "breath." This speaks of their plans causing them to die as if their plans would literally burn up their bodies. AT: "your plans will cause you to die" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metonymy]] and [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metaphor]])

# The peoples will be burned to lime, as thornbushes are cut down and are burned

This compares how the peoples' dead bodies will be burned to the way thornbushes are burned. Also, this can be stated in active form. AT: "Fire will burn the peoples' bodies to lime in the same way that a farmer cuts down thornbushes and burns them" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-simile]] and [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-activepassive]])

# lime

the ashes from burned bones

# translationWords

* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/yahweh]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/exalt]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/chaff]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/fire]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/consume]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/peoplegroup]]