# General Information:

Yahweh continues to speak.

# You who are far away, hear what I have done; and, you who are near, acknowledge my might

Yahweh uses the words "far away" and "near" to mean all people. The word "might" can be expressed with the adjective "mighty." AT: "All people everywhere hear what I have done and acknowledge that I am mighty" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-merism]] and [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-abstractnouns]])

# trembling has seized the godless ones

This speaks of the godless people trembling as if their trembling were an enemy that had seized them. AT: "the godless ones are overwhelmed with trembling" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-personification]])

# Who among us ... burnings

It is implied that the sinner in Zion ask these questions. AT: "They say, 'Who among us ... burnings'" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-explicit]])

# Who among us can sojourn with a raging fire? Who among us can sojourn with everlasting burnings?

These rhetorial questions have basically the same meaning and emphasize that no one can live with fire. Here fire represents Yahweh's judgment. AT: "No one can live with raging fire! No one can live with everylasting burns!" or "No one can live bearing Yahweh's judgment, it is like an everlasting fire!" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-rquestion]] and [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metonymy]])

# sojourn

live in a place that is not one's home

# translationWords

* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/mighty]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/sin]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/zion]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/fear]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/eternity]]