# General Information:

Isaiah continues to speak to the people of Judah.

# the city of our feasts

This means that they have their festival and feasts at this city. AT: "the city where we have our feasts" or "they city where we celebrate our festivals" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-possession]])

# your eyes will see

The people are referred to by their "eyes" to emphasize what they are seeing. AT: "you will see" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-synecdoche]])

# a tent that will not be removed

This speaks of Zion being secure and well establish as if it were secure tent. This can be stated in active form and written as a new sentence. AT: "it will be secure, like a tent that no one will ever remove" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metaphor]] and [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-activepassive]])

# whose stakes will never be pulled up nor will any of its cords be broken

This is part of the metaphor that compares Zion to a secure tent. This can be stated in active form. AT: "whose stakes no one will ever pull up and whose cords no one will ever break" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metaphor]] and [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-activepassive]])

# Yahweh in majesty will be with us, in a place of broad rivers and streams

Here "us" refers to Isaiah and includes the people of Judah. This speaks of the safety of living with Yahweh as if it were a place that has rivers around it so that enemies cannot attack it. AT: "Yahweh who is majestic will be with us, and we will be safe as if we were in a place surrounded by broad rivers" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-inclusive]] and [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metaphor]])

# will travel it

"will travel the river"

# translationWords

* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/zion]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/feast]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/jerusalem]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/tent]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/yahweh]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/majesty]]