# I am the vine, you are the branches

The "vine" is a metaphor that represents Jesus. The "branches" is a metaphor that represent those who trust in Jesus and belong to him. AT: "I am like a vine, and you are like branches that are attached to the vine" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metaphor]])

# He who remains in me and I in him

Here Jesus implies that his followers are joined to him as he is joined to God. AT: "He who stays joined to me, as I stay joined to my Father" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-explicit]])

# he bears much fruit

The implied metaphor here is the fruitful branch that represents the believer who pleases God. Just as a branch that is attached to the vine will bear much fruit, those who stay joined to Jesus will do many things that please God. AT: "you will bear much fruit" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metaphor]])

# he is thrown away like a branch and dries up

Here the implied metaphor is the unfruitful branch that represents those who do not stay joined to Jesus. You can translate this in an active form. AT: "the vinedresser throws him away like a branch and it dries up" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metaphor]] and [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-activepassive]]).

# they are burned up

You can translate this in an active form. AT: "the fire burns them" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-activepassive]])

# ask whatever you wish

Jesus implies that believers must ask God to answer their prayers. AT: "ask God whatever you wish" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-explicit]])

# it will be done for you

You can translate this in an active form. AT: "he will do it for you" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-activepassive]])

# translationWords

* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/fruit]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/fire]]