# The word came to Jeremiah

It is implied that the word that came to Jeremiah was from Yahweh. This idiom is used to introduce a special message from God. See how you translated a similar phrase in [Jeremiah 7:1](../07/01.md). AT: "This is the message that Yahweh gave to Jeremiah" or "This is the message that Yahweh spoke to Jeremiah" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-idiom]])

# Migdol

This is the name of a city. (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/translate-names]])

# Tahpanhes ... Memphis

Translate the names of these cities as you did in [Jeremiah 2:16](../02/14.md). (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/translate-names]])

# in Upper Egypt

This refers to the southern region of Egypt. It is sometime called "Pathros."

# Yahweh of hosts ... says this

Jeremiah often uses these words to introduce an important message from Yahweh. See how you translated this in [Jeremiah 6:6](../06/06.md).

# You yourselves have seen

The word "yourselves" is used for emphasis to specify the people of Judea who live in the land of Egypt. (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-rpronouns]])

# all the disasters that I brought on Jerusalem and all the cities of Judah

Causing disasters is spoken of as if disasters were an object that can be put on something. AT: "all the disaster that I caused to happen to Jerusalem and all the cities of Judah" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metaphor]])

# See

"Listen" or "Pay attention" or "Be sure you understand this:"

# they did to offend me

"the people of Jerusalem and all the cities of Judah did to offend me"

# they themselves

The word "themselves" is used for emphasis to specify the people of Jerusalem and the other cities of Judah. AT: "the people from the ruined cities" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-rpronouns]])

# translationWords

* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/word]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/jeremiah]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/judea]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/life]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/egypt]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/yahwehofhosts]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/god]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/israel]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/jerusalem]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/kingdomofjudah]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/ruin]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/evil]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/incense]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/worship]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/falsegod]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/know]]