# So I repeatedly sent

The word "I" refers to Yahweh.

# or turn from their wickedness in burning incense to other gods

To stop doing something is spoken of as if it were physically turning away from something. AT: "or to stop behaving wickedly by burning incense to other gods" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metaphor]])

# my fury and my wrath were poured out

Becoming angry and punishing people is spoken of as if fury and wrath were liquids there could be poured on people. This can be stated in active form. AT: "I became very angry and punished them" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metaphor]] and [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-activepassive]])

# my fury and my wrath

The words "fury" and "wrath" mean basically the same thing and emphasize the intensity of his wrath. AT: "my terrible wrath" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-doublet]])

# kindled a fire

Yahweh becoming angry and punishing the people of Judah is spoken of as his fury and wrath were a fire. AT: "my fury and wrath were like a fire" or "my punishment was like a fire" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metaphor]])

# they became ruins and devastations

The words "ruins" and "devastations" mean basically the same thing. Together they emphasize the complete devastation of Judah and Jerusalem. AT: "they became completely devastated" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-doublet]])

# as at this present day

This refers to the current time at which Yahweh was speaking this message.

# translationWords

* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/send]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/servant]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/prophet]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/abomination]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/turn]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/wrath]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/fire]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/ruin]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/devastated]]