# Why are you doing ... yourselves? Why are you causing ... and babies?

Yahweh uses these questions to rebuke the people for doing things that cause him to punish them. AT: "You are doing ... yourselves. You are causing ... and babies." (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-rquestion]])

# Why are you doing great wickedness against yourselves?

The abstract noun "wickedness" can be stated as "wicked." AT: "Why are you doing these wicked things that harm yourselves?" or "You are doing wicked things that cause terrible things to happen to you." (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-abstractnouns]])

# Why are you causing yourselves to be cut off from among Judah ... and babies?

Being separated from the people of Judah is spoken of as if the people are cut off from Judah the way a person may cut off a branch from a vine or cut off a piece of cloth. This can be stated in active form. AT: "Why are you causing me to remove you from the people of Judah ... and babies?" or "You are causing me to remove you from the people of Judah ... and babies." (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metaphor]] and [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-activepassive]])

# By your wickedness you have offended me with the deeds of your hands

The abstract noun "wickedness" represents actions that are "wicked." Here "hand" represents the whole person. AT: "You have offended me with the wicked things you have done" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-abstractnouns]] and [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-synecdoche]])

# You have gone there so that ... so that

"The result of going to Egypt is that ... and that"

# you will be destroyed

This can be stated in active form. AT: "you will cause me to destroy you" or "you will destroy yourselves" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-activepassive]])

# you will be a curse and a reproach among all the nations of the earth

Here "nations" represent the people. AT: "all the people of all the nations of the earth will curse you and hate you" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metonymy]])