# Have you forgotten the wickedness committed by your ancestors and the wickedness committed by the kings of Judah and their wives?

Yahweh rebukes the people for not thinking about the wicked behavior of their ancestors and how Yahweh punished them. This can be stated in active form. AT: "Think about what happened to your ancestors and the kings of Judah and their wives when they did wicked things." (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-rquestion]] and [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-activepassive]])

# Have you forgotten the evil committed by yourselves and your wives in the land of Judah and the streets of Jerusalem?

Yahweh rebukes the people for not thinking about their own wicked behavior and how Yahweh punished them. This can be stated in active form. AT: "Think about what happened to you and your wives when you did evil things in the land Judah and the streets of Jerusalem." (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-rquestion]] and [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-activepassive]])

# the streets of Jerusalem

Jerusalem is referred to by the part of the city where people walk. This means the people did evil things in public places. AT: "Jerusalem" or "the public places of Jerusalem" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-synecdoche]])

# they still are not humbled

"the people of Judah are still not humble." Yahweh is still speaking to the people of Judah, so this can be stated in second person. AT: "you are still not humble" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-123person]])

# nor do they walk in them

Obeying the laws is spoken of as if it were walking in the laws. AT: "nor do they obey them" or "nor do you obey them" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metaphor]])

# translationWords

* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/king]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/humble]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/honor]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/lawofmoses]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/decree]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/walk]]