# all of Judah

Here "Judah" represents the people. AT: "all the people of Judah" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metonymy]])

# Yahweh of hosts ... says this

Jeremiah often uses these words to introduce an important message from Yahweh. See how you translated this in [Jeremiah 6:6](../06/06.md).

# have said with your mouths and carried out with your hands what you said

Here "mouths" and "hands" represent the whole person. AT: "have done what you promised to do when you said" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-synecdoche]])

# carry out the vows

"fulfill the vows" or "complete the vows"

# Now fulfill your vows; carry them out

This is an ironic statement. Yahweh does not really want them to fulfill their vow to a false goddess. Yahweh knows they will not listen to him so he tells them to go ahead and do what they want. AT: "Very well! If that is what you want to do, then go fulfill your vows and do what you promised to do" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-irony]])

# Now

The word "now" does not mean "at this moment," but is used to draw attention to the important point that follows.

# translationWords

* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/jeremiah]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/word]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/yahweh]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/egypt]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/yahwehofhosts]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/god]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/israel]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/vow]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/worship]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/drinkoffering]]