# all of Judah

Here "Judah" represents the people. AT: "all the people of Judah" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metonymy]])

# I have sworn by my great name

Yahweh's "great name" refers to his whole being and reputation. AT: "I have sworn upon myself" or "I have sworn by speaking my powerful name" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metonymy]])

# My name will no longer be called upon by the mouths of any of the men of Judah in all the land of Egypt

Here "name" represents the whole being of Yahweh. And, "mouth" represents the whole person. This can be stated in active form. AT: "No person of Judah living in the land of Egypt will ever call upon me again" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metonymy]] and [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-synecdoche]] and [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-activepassive]])

# As the Lord Yahweh lives

"as surely as the Lord Yahweh is alive." The people use this expression to show that what they say next is certainly true. This is a way of making a solemn promise. See how you transited "As Yahweh lives" [Jeremiah 4:2](../04/01.md). AT: "I solemnly swear" or "I solemnly swear by the Lord Yahweh" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-idiom]])

# Every person of Judah in the land of Egypt will perish by sword and famine until they are all finished

Here "Every person" is a generalization that means "very many people." Also, "sword" represents enemies carrying weapons. AT: "Nearly every person of Judah in the land of Egypt will die. Enemies will kill many of them and many of them will starve to death until there is very few of them left" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-hyperbole]] and [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metonymy]])

# Then the survivors of the sword

Here "sword" represents enemies carrying weapons. AT: "Then those whom the enemies do not kill" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metonymy]])

# translationWords

* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/oath]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/name]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/lordyahweh]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/life]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/good]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/perish]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/sword]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/famine]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/remnant]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/know]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/true]]