# this is Yahweh's declaration

Yahweh speaks of himself by name to express the certainty of what he is declaring. See how you translated this in [Jeremiah 1:8](../01/07.md). AT: "this is what Yahweh has declared" or "this is what I, Yahweh, have declared" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-123person]])

# I am setting against you

This is an idiom. AT: "I am opposed to you" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-idiom]])

# my words will certainly attack you with disaster

Yahweh causing disaster on the people as he promised is spoken of as if his word would attack them. AT: "what I have said will happen and you will have a disaster" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-personification]])

# Look

"Listen" or "Pay attention"

# I am about to give Pharaoh Hophra king of Egypt into the hand of his enemies and into the hand of those who seek to kill him

Here "hand" represents power or control. AT: "I will allow the enemies who want to kill Pharaoh Hophra, the king of Egypt, to defeat him" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metonymy]])

# Hophra

This is the name of a man. (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/translate-names]])

# when I gave Zedekiah king of Judah into the hand of Nebuchadnezzar king of Babylon, his enemy who sought his life

Here "hand" represents power or control. And, Nebuchadnezzar represents his whole army. The phrase "sought his life" is an idiom that means to want to kill someone. AT: "when I allowed the army of Nebuchadnezzar to defeat Zedekiah king of Judah" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metonymy]] and [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-idiom]])

# translationWords

* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/sign]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/declare]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/pharaoh]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/hand]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/adversary]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/zedekiah]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/king]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/judah]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/nebuchadnezzar]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/babylon]]