# General Information:

Isaiah continues to speak God's message to Shebna.

# It will come about on that day

"It will happen at that time"

# Eliakim ... Hilkiah

These are names of men. (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/translate-names]])

# I will clothe him with your tunic and put on him your sash

Yahweh causing Eliakim to take Shebna's place in the king's palace is spoken of as if Yahweh will dress Eliakim in Shebna's clothes that represent his authority in the king's palace. (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metaphor]])

# your tunic ... your sash

Here the tunic and sash represent authority in the king's palace. (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metonymy]])

# sash

This is a piece of cloth that people wear around the waist or across the chest. See how you translated this in [Isaiah 3:20](../03/18.md).

# into his hand

Here "hand" represents power or control. AT: "to him" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metonymy]])

# He will be a father

Eliakim caring for and protecting the people of Judah is spoken of as if he would be their father. AT: "He will be like a father" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metaphor]])

# to the house of Judah

Here "house" represents the people. AT: "to the people of Judah" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metonymy]])

# I will place the key of the house of David on his shoulder ... none will open

Here "key" represents authority. This speaks of Eliakim having authority that no one can oppose as if he had the key to the palace and no one else could lock or unlock the door. AT: "I will put him in charge of those who work in the king's palace, and when he makes a decision no one will be able to oppose him" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metonymy]] and [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metaphor]])

# translationWords

* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/call]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/servant]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/clothed]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/tunic]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/authority]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/hand]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/father]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/names/jerusalem]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/house]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/names/judah]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/names/david]]