# General Information:

Yahweh continues to describe Eliakim, who will replace Shebna in the king's palace.

# I will fasten him, a peg in a secure place

Yahweh causing Eliakim's authority to be strong and secure in the king's palace is spoken of as if Eliakim were a peg and Yahweh will set him firmly in the palace wall. (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metaphor]])

# he will become a seat of glory for his father's house

Here "seat of glory" represents a place of honor. AT: "Eliakim will bring honor to his family" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metonymy]])

# his father's house

Here "house" represents family. AT: "his father's family" or "his family" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metonymy]])

# They will hang on him all the glory of his father's house

Yahweh causing Eliakim's whole family to be honored because of Eliakim is spoken of as if Eliakim were a peg in the wall and his family were something that hangs on the peg. AT: "They will give honor to his whole family because of him" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metaphor]])

# every small container from the cups to all the jugs

This continues to speak of Eliakim as a peg. His offspring will be like cups that hang on the peg. This means his descendants will be honored because of him. (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metaphor]])

# the cups to all the jugs

A cup is a small container that holds water. A jug is a larger container that holds water.

# translationWords

* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/glory]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/father]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/house]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/offspring]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/descendant]]