# Connecting Statement:

Yahweh gives Ezekiel his message to Gog.

# son of man

"son of a human being" or "son of humanity." God calls Ezekiel this to emphasize that Ezekiel is only a human being. God is eternal and powerful, but humans are not. See how you translated this in [Ezekiel 2:1](../02/01.md). AT: "mortal person" or "human"

# Behold!

This tells the reader to pay special attention to what follows. AT: "Look!" or "Listen!" or "Pay attention to what I am about to tell you!"

# I am against you

"I am your enemy"

# chief of Meshech and Tubal

Some modern versions interpret the Hebrew expression as "prince of Rosh, Meshech, and Tubal." This is another title for Gog. See how you translated these names in [Ezekiel 38:2-3](../38/01.md). AT: "who is the prince of Meshech and Tubal" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-explicit]])

# I will turn you and lead you on

God speaks of leading Gog as if Gog was an animal. (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metaphor]])

# bring you up

God speaks of bringing Gog "up" to Israel because it was located in the mountains.

# I will knock your bow out of your left hand and make the arrows fall from your right hand.

Knocking Gog's bow and arrows out of his hands is spoken of as if God is destroying Gog's military power. (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metaphor]])

# translationWords

* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/sonofman]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/prophet]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/lordyahweh]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/meshech]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/tubal]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/israel]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/bowweapon]]