# Connecting Statement:

Yahweh continues giving Ezekiel his message to Gog.

# your troops and the soldiers

These refer to the same people. It can be stated as a single phrase. AT: "all your soldiers" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-doublet]])

# I will give you to the birds of prey and the wild beasts of the fields for food

The scavengers eating the corpses is spoken of as if Yahweh was giving food to them. (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metaphor]])

# this is the Lord Yahweh's declaration

Yahweh speaks of himself by name to express the certainty of what he is declaring. See how you translated this in [Ezekiel 5:11](../05/11.md). AT: "this is what the Lord Yahweh has declared" or "this is what I, the Lord Yahweh, have declared" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-123person]])

# I will send out fire on Magog

Possible meanings are 1) Yahweh will send literal fire down on Gog and his army or 2) "fire" is a metonym for the destruction that it causes. (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metonymy]])

# Magog

This is the name of an ancient nation that probably lived in the land that is now Turkey. Magog might be the ancient nation of Lydia. See how you translated this in [Ezekiel 38:2](../38/01.md).

# know that I am Yahweh

When Yahweh says that people will know that he is Yahweh, he is implying that they will know that he is the one true God who has supreme authority and power. See how you translated this in [Ezekiel 6:7](../06/06.md). AT: "understand that I am Yahweh, the one true God" or "realize that I, Yahweh, have supreme power and authority" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-explicit]])

# translationWords

* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/death]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/declare]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/send]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/fire]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/life]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/know]]