# still fleshly

still behaving according to sinful or worldly desires

# are you not living according to the flesh, and are you not walking by human standards?

Paul is rebuking the Corinthians for their sinful behavior. "Walking" here is a metaphor for "judging your behavior," deciding what is good and bad. AT: "you should be ashamed because you are behaving according to your sinful desires and you are using human standards to decide whether your behavior is good or bad!" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-rquestion]] and [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metaphor]])

# are you not living as human beings?

Paul is rebuking the Corinthians. AT: "you should be ashamed because you are living the same way people who do not have the Spirit live" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-rquestion]])

# Who then is Apollos? Who is Paul?

Paul is emphasizing that he and Apollos are not the original source of the gospel, and therefore the Corinthians should not follow them. AT: "It is wrong to form groups to follow Apollos or Paul!" or (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-rquestion]])

# Who is Paul?

Paul is speaking of himself as though he were speaking of someone else. AT: "I am not important!" or "Who am I?" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-rquestion]] and [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-123person]])

# Servants through whom you believed

Paul answers his own question by saying that he and Apollos are God's servants. AT: "Paul and Apollos are servants of Christ, and you believed in Christ because we served him" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-ellipsis]])

# Servants through whom you believed, to each of whom the Lord gave tasks

This can be stated with the understood information. AT: "We are servants through whom youbelieved. We are only people to whom the Lord gave tasks" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-ellipsis]])

# translationWords

* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/flesh]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/jealous]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/strife]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/walk]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/names/paul]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/names/apollos]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/servant]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/believe]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/lord]]