# General Information:

Paul speaks of what builders usually do when constructing a building to describe what the teachers in Corinth are actually doing. Builders usually only use gold, silver, or precious stones as decorations on buildings.

# Now if anyone builds on the foundation with gold, silver, precious stones, wood, hay, or straw

The building materials used to build a new building are being compared to the spiritual values used to build a person's behavior and activities during his lifetime. AT: "Whether a person builds with valuable materials that will last or with cheap materials that burn easily" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metaphor]])

# precious stones

"expensive stones"

# his work will be revealed

This can be stated in active form. AT: "God will show everyone what the builder has done" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-activepassive]])

# for the daylight will reveal it

The "daylight" here is a metaphor for the time when God will judge everyone. When God shows everyone what these teachers have done, it will be like the sun has come up to reveal what happened during the night. (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metaphor]])

# For it will be revealed in fire. The fire will test the quality of what each one had done

Just as fire will reveal the strengths or destroy the weaknesses of a building, God's fire will judge man's efforts and activities. AT: "God will use fire to show the quality of his work" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metaphor]])