# Haman

See how you translated this man's name in [Esther 3:1](../03/01.md)

# the outer courtyard

"the first courtyard from the outside"

# hanging Mordecai

It can be made clear what the purpose of hanging him was. AT: "killing Mordecai by hanging him" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-explicit]])

# the gallows he set up for him

The gallows was a structure that was used to kill people by hanging them from it. See how you translated "gallows" in [Esther 5:14](../05/14.md). AT: "the structure Haman set up for hanging Mordecai" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/translate-unknown]])

# set up

"built"

# What should be done for the man whom the king takes pleasure in honoring

Here the king speaks of himself in the third person. This can be stated in first person and in active form. AT: "What should I do for the man whom I take pleasure in honoring" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-123person]] and [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-activepassive]])

# the king takes pleasure in honoring

Taking pleasure in doing something is an idiom for being glad to do something or wanting to do something. AT: "the king is glad to honor" or "the king wants to honor" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-idiom]])

# said in his heart

The heart represents the thoughts and attitudes. AT: "thought" or "said to himself" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metaphor]])

# Whom would the king take pleasure in honoring more than me?

This can be expressed as a statement. "Surely there is no one whom the king would take pleasure in honoring more than me!" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-rquestion]])