# Sheol and destruction are open before Yahweh

The words "Sheol and destruction" both refer to the place of the dead. Yahweh knowing everything about the place of the dead is spoken of as if it were open before Yahweh. AT: "Yahweh knows everything about the place where dead people are" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-doublet]] and [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metaphor]])

# how much more the hearts of the sons of mankind?

This rhetorical question emphasizes that since Yahweh knows everything about the place of the dead, it is more obvious that he knows everything about the hearts of men. AT: "so he certainly knows the hearts of the sons of mankind!" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-rquestion]])

# the hearts of the sons of mankind

Here the word "hearts" represents the thoughts and motivations. The phrase "the sons of mankind" is an idiom for humanity. AT: "the thoughts of humans" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metonymy]] and [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-idiom]])

# The mocker resents correction

The word "correction" can be translated with a verbal form. AT: "The mocker hates when others correct him" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-abstractnouns]])

# he will not go to the wise

It is implied that he will not go to the wise to seek their counsel or advice. AT: "he will not go to the wise to seek their counsel" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-explicit]])

# translationWords

* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/hades]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/yahweh]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/heart]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/mock]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/wise]]