# all Israel

Here "Israel" is a metonym for the men of Israel. The word "all" is a generalization. AT: "the men of Israel" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metonymy]] and [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-hyperbole]])

# the king did not listen to them

Here "listen to the people" represents not caring about what they said or about actually doing what they asked. AT: "the king did not do what they had asked him to do" or "the king ignored them" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metonymy]])

# What share do we have in David? We have no inheritance in the son of Jesse

The people use this question and statement to imply that since they do not belong to David's family, they are not obligated to support David's grandson, King Rehoboam. AT: "We have no share in David. We will not have anything to do with the descendants of the son of Jesse" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-rquestion]] and [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-explicit]])

# What share do we have in David?

Having a share in someone represents being his descendants and receiving the good things that descendants receive. AT: "We do not belong to the family of David" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metonymy]])

# We have no inheritance in the son of Jesse

"Son of Jesse" is a metonym for David, a son of Jesse. Having an inheritance in someone represents being his descendants and receiving the good things that descendants receive. AT: "We will not receive any inheritance from the son of Jesse" or "We will have nothing to do with the his descendants" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metonymy]])

# Each of you should go back to his tent

"Tent" is a metonym representing people's homes. AT: "Go to your homes, people of Israel" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metonymy]])

# Now see to your own house, David

Here "see to" is an idiom meaning to take care of something, and "house" is a metonym for David's lineage of power and prestige. AT: "Now take care of your own kingdom, descendant of David" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-idiom]] and [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metonymy]])

# translationWords

* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/israel]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/david]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/inherit]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/jesse]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/tent]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/house]]