# Where is the certificate of divorce with which I divorced your mother?

Yahweh speaks of Zion as if the city were the mother of the people who lived there and of sending the people into exile as if he were divorcing their mother. (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metaphor]])

# Where is the certificate of divorce with which I divorced your mother?

Yahweh asks this rhetorical question so that the people would produce "the certificate of divorce," which would provide the reason Yahweh sent them into exile. AT: "Show me the certificate of divorce with which I divorced your mother." (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-rquestion]])

# To which of my creditors did I sell you?

Yahweh speaks of sending the people into exile as if he were selling them. (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metaphor]])

# To which of my creditors did I sell you?

Yahweh asks this question to emphasize that he did not sell them because he owed a debt to a creditor. It is implied that this is what the people had thought. AT: "I did not sell you because I owed a debt to someone." (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-rquestion]])

# you were sold because of your sins, and because of your rebellion, your mother was sent away

Yahweh gives the reason for sending the people into exile, which he speaks of as if he had sold them and divorced their mother. This can be stated in active form. AT: "I sold you because of your sins, and I divorced your mother because of your rebellion" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metaphor]] and [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-activepassive]])

# translationWords

* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/yahweh]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/divorce]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/sin]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/rebel]]