# daughters-in-law

"sons' wives" or "sons' widows"

# each of you

Naomi was talking to two people, so languages that have a dual form of "you" would use that throughout her talk. (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-you]])

# your mother's house

"to the home of each of your mothers"

# shown kindness

"demonstrated that you are loyal"

# kindness

"kindness" includes the ideas of love, kindness, and faithfulness.

# toward the dead

"to your husbands, who died." Naomi was referring to her two sons that died. (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-idiom]])

# grant you

"give you" or "allow you to have"

# rest

"Rest" here includes security in marriage.

# in the house of another husband

with their new husbands, not someone else's husband. This refers to both a physical house that belongs to the husband, and to the protection from shame by being married. (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metonymy]])

# they raised their voices and cried

This means that the daughters cried out loud or wept bitterly. (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-idiom]])

# We will return

When Orpah and Ruth said "we," they were referring to themselves and not Naomi. So languages that have inclusive and exclusive "we" would use the exclusive form here. (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-exclusive]])

# with you

Here "you" is the singular form referring to Naomi. (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-you]])

# translationWords

* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/yahweh]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/death]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/kiss]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/raise]]