# The one who says

"Anyone who says" or "The person who says"

# I know God

"I have a good relationship with God"

# does not keep

"does not obey" or "disobeys"

# his commandments

"what God tells him to do"

# the truth is not in him

The truth is spoken of as if it were an object that could be inside the believers. AT: "he does not believe what God says is true" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metaphor]])

# keeps his word

"obeys what God tells him to do". (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-synecdoche]]).

# in him truly the love of God has been perfected

This can be stated in active form. Possible meanings are 1) "the love of God" refers to a person loving God, and "perfected" represents completely or fully. AT: "it is that person who loves God completely" or 2) "the love of God" refers to God loving people, and "perfected" represents completing its purpose. AT: "God's love has achieved its purpose in that person's life" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-possession]] and [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-activepassive]])

# By this we know that we are in him

The phrase "we are in him" means that the believer has fellowship with God. AT: "When we obey what God says, we can be certain that we have fellowship with him" or "By this we know that are joined to God" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metaphor]])

# remains in God

To remain in God means to continue to have fellowship with God. AT: "continues to have fellowship with God" or "stays joined to God" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metaphor]])

# should himself also walk just as he walked

Conducting one's life is spoken of as if it were walking. AT: "must live as he lived" or "should also obey God just as Jesus Christ did" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metaphor]])

# translationWords

* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/god]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/command]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/true]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/love]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/perfect]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/inchrist]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/jesus]]