# General Information:

Here the word "brother" refers to a fellow Christian.

# The one who says

"Anyone who says" or "Someone who claims." This does not refer to a specific person.

# he is in the light

Here to be "in the light" is a metaphor for doing what is right. AT: "he does what is right" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metaphor]])

# is in the darkness

Here to be "in the darkness" is a metaphor for doing what is evil. AT: "does what is evil" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metaphor]])

# there is no occasion for stumbling in him

"nothing will cause him to stumble." The word "stumbling" is a metaphor that means to fail spiritually or morally. AT: "nothing will cause him to sin" or "he will not fail to do what is pleasing to God" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metaphor]])

# is in the darkness and walks in the darkness

Here "walk" is a metaphor for how a person lives or behaves. Here to be "in the darkness" and "walks in the darkness" mean the same thing. This brings attention to how evil it is to hate a fellow believer. AT: "does what is evil" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metaphor]] and [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-parallelism]])

# he does not know where he is going

This is a metaphor for the believer who is not living as a Christian should be living. AT: "he does not know what he should do" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metaphor]])

# the darkness has blinded his eyes

"the darkness has made him unable to see." Darkness is a metaphor for sin or evil. AT: "sin has made it impossible for him to understand the truth" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metaphor]])

# translationWords

* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/light]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/brother]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/darkness]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/love]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/walk]]