# General Information:

John explains why he is writing his letter either to different age groups or to believers with differences in maturity. Try to use similar wording for these sentences, as they are written poetically.

# you, dear children

John was an elderly man and their leader. He used this expression to show his love for them. See how you translated this in [1 John 2:1](./01.md). AT: "you, my dear children in Christ" or "you who are as dear to me as my own children" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metaphor]])

# your sins are forgiven

This can be stated in active form. AT: "God forgives your sins" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-activepassive]])

# because of his name

"his name" refers to Christ and who he is. AT: "because of what Christ has done for you" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metonymy]])

# I am writing to you, fathers

The word "fathers" here is possibly a metaphor referring to mature believers. AT: "I am writing to you, mature believers" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metaphor]])

# you know

"you have a relationship with"

# the one who is from the beginning

"the one who has always lived" or "the one who has always existed." It refers either to "Jesus" or to "God the Father."

# young men

This possibly refers to those who are no longer new believers but are growing in spiritual maturity. AT: "young believers" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metaphor]])

# you are strong

Here "strong" refers not to believers' physical strength, but to their faithfulness to Christ. (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metaphor]])

# the word of God remains in you

The writer refers to the believers' increased faithfulness to Christ and knowledge of him as if he were speaking of God's word existing in them. AT: "you know the word of God" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metaphor]])

"Word of God" is a metonym for the message from God. AT: "God's message continues to teach you" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metonymy]])

# overcome

The writer is speaking of the believers' refusal to follow Satan and of their frustrating his plans as if it were a matter of conquering him. (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metaphor]])

# translationWords

* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/children]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/sin]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/forgive]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/satan]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/godthefather]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/father]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/wordofgod]]