# Connecting Statement:

John reminds believers to continue in what they have first heard.

# General Information:

Here the word "you" is plural and refers to the people to whom John wrote as well as all believers. The word "he" is emphatic and refers to Christ. (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-you]])

# As for you

This marks John's telling them how they should live as followers of Jesus instead of how those against Christ live.

# let what you have heard from the beginning remain in you

"remember and believe what you have heard from the beginning." How they heard it, what they heard, and what "the beginning" means can be made explicit: AT: "continue to trust what we have taught you about Jesus just as you have trusted since you first became believers" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-explicit]])

# what you have heard from the beginning

"what we taught you about Jesus when you first became believers"

# If what you heard from the beginning remains in you

The word "remains" is talking about relationship, not salvation. AT: "If you continue to trust what we first taught you"

# also remain in the Son and in the Father

"also have a relationship with the Son and with the Father." See how this was translated in [1 John 2:5-6](./04.md).

# This is the promise he gave to us—eternal life.

"This is what he promised to give us—eternal life" or "He has promised to cause us to live forever"

# life

The word "life" throughout this letter refers to more than physical life. It stands here for Jesus, the eternal life. See how you translated this in [1 John 1:1-2](../01/01.md). (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metonymy]])

# would lead you astray

"want to lead you astray." Leading people astray represents deceiving them. AT: "want to deceive you" or "want to make you believe lies about Jesus Christ" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metaphor]])

# translationWords

* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/eternity]]