# Connecting Statement:

Starting in verse 29, John introduces the idea of being born into God's family. The previous verses show that believers continue to sin; this part shows that believers also have the new nature, which cannot sin. It continues to show how believers can recognize each other.

# As for you

This marks John's telling them something else about how they should live as followers of Jesus instead of following those who are against Christ.

# the anointing

This refers to "God's Spirit." See the note about "anointing" in [1 John 2:20](./20.md).

# as his anointing teaches you everything

Here the word "everything" is a generalization. AT: "because his anointing teaches you everything that you need to know" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-hyperbole]])

# remain in him

To remain in someone means to continue to have fellowship with him. See how you translated "remains in God" in [1 John 2:5-6](./04.md). AT: "continue to have fellowship with him" or "stay joined with him" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metaphor]])

# Now

This word is used here to mark a new part of the letter.

# dear children

John was an elderly man and their leader. He used this expression to show his love for them. See how you translated this in [1 John 2:1](./01.md). AT: "my dear children in Christ" or "you who are as dear to me as my own children" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metaphor]])

# he appears

"we see him"

# boldness

"confidence"

# not be ashamed before him

"not be ashamed in his presence"

# at his coming

"when he comes again"

# has been born from him

"has been born of God" or "is God's child"