# General Information:

Yahweh continues telling Moses what the people must do.

# you must offer it that you may be accepted

This can be translated in active form. Possible meanings are 1) Yahweh will accept the person offering the sacrifice. AT: "you must offer it properly so that I will accept you" or 2) Yahweh will accept the sacrifice from the person. AT: "you must offer it properly so that I will accept your sacrifice" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-explicit]] and [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-activepassive]])

# It must be eaten

This can be translated in active form. AT: "You must eat it" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-activepassive]])

# it must be burned

This can be translated in active form. AT: "you must burn it" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-activepassive]])

# If it is eaten at all

This can be translated in active form. AT: "If you eat any of it" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-activepassive]])

# It must not be accepted

To eat the offering after the designated time is against God and increases the guilt the offering was to cover. This can be translated in active form. AT: "You may not accept it for eating" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-activepassive]])

# everyone ... must carry his own guilt

A person's guilt is spoken of as if it were a physical object that the person carries. Here the word "guilt" represents the punishment for that guilt. AT: "everyone ... is responsible for his own guilt" or "Yahweh will punish everyone ... for his sin" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metaphor]] and [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metonymy]])

# That person must be cut off from his people

A person being excluded from his community is spoken of as if he had been cut off from his people, as one would cut a piece of cloth or cut a branch from a tree. This can be translated in active form. See how you translated this in [Leviticus 7:20](../07/19.md). AT: "that person may no longer live among his people" or "you must separate that person from his people" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metaphor]] and [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-activepassive]])

# translationWords

* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/sacrifice]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/fellowshipoffering]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/defile]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/guilt]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/holy]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/cutoff]]