# For three sins of ... even for four

This is a poetic device. It does not mean that a specific number of sins had been committed, but indicates that many sins had led to God's judgment. See how you translated these words in [Amos 1:3](./03.md).

# Edom

Here "Edom" represents the people of the country of Edom. AT: "the people of Edom" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metonymy]])

# I will not turn away punishment

Yahweh uses two negatives here to emphasize that he would punish them. See how you translated these words in [Amos 1:3](./03.md). (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-litotes]])

# he pursued his brother

The assumed knowledge is that Esau, from whom the people of Edom were descended, was the brother of Jacob, from whom the people of Israel were descended. Here "his brother" represents the people of Israel. AT: "he pursued the people of Israel" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-explicit]] and [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metonymy]])

# cast off all pity

"showed them no mercy"

# His anger raged continually, and his wrath lasted forever

These two phrases mean the same thing and are repeated to emphasize his continued anger. The abstract nouns "anger" and "wrath" can be translated using the adjectives "angry" and "furious." AT: "He was continually angry and always furious" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-parallelism]] and [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-abstractnouns]])

# his wrath lasted forever

This is an exaggeration that is meant to express the ongoing nature of his wrath. (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-hyperbole]])

