# do what is in your heart

Here "heart" represents the mind. AT: "do what you think you should" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metonymy]])

# for Yahweh is with you

Here "with you" means God is helping and blessing David. (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-idiom]])

# the word of Yahweh came to Nathan, saying,

The idiom "the word of Yahweh came to" is used to introduce a special message from God. AT: "Yahweh gave a message to Nathan. He said," or "Yahweh spoke this message to Nathan:" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-idiom]])

# saying, "Go and tell David my servant, 'This is what Yahweh says: Will you build me a house in which to live?

This has quotations within quotations. It may be necessary to translate them as indirect quotation. AT: "saying, 'Go and ask David if he thinks that he will be the one to build a house in which I will live." (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-quotesinquotes]] and [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-quotations]])

# Will you build me a house in which to live?

Yahweh uses a question to emphasize that David is not the one to build a house for Yahweh. This question can be translated as a statement. AT: "You will not build a house for me" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-rquestion]])

# build me a house

Here "house" means a temple. In 7:11 Yahweh will say that he will build a house for David. There "house" means a family. If your language has a word that can express both ideas, use it here and in 7:11.

# translationWords

* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/heart]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/wordofgod]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/names/david]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/servant]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/house]]