# General Information:

Yahweh describes his promises to King David through the prophet Nathan.

# Now

This does not mean "at this moment," but is used to draw attention to the important point that follows.

# tell my servant David, "This is what Yahweh of hosts says: 'I took you ... your name great, like the names of the great ones of the earth.

This has quotations within quotations. It may be necessary to translate the direct quotations as indirect quotations as in the UDB. AT: "tell my servant David that I took him ... his name great, like the names of the great ones of the earth" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-quotesinquotes]] and [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-quotations]])

# tell my servant David

Yahweh is still telling the prophet Nathan what he should tell David.

# I took you from the pasture

David's job as a shepherd is referred to by the place he watched his sheep. AT: "I took you from your job as a shepherd" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metonymy]])

# I have been with you

Here "with you" means that Yahweh has helped and blessed David. (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-idiom]])

# I have cut off all your enemies

Yahweh destroying David's enemies is spoken of as if Yahweh cut them off, as one would cut a piece of cloth or cut a branch from a tree. (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metaphor]])

# make your name great

Here "name" represents a person's reputation. (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metonymy]])

# the great ones

The phrase "great ones" means famous persons.

# translationWords

* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/yahwehofhosts]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/sheep]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/ruler]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/peopleofgod]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/cutoff]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/adversary]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/name]]