# General Information:

Yahweh continues describing his promises to King David through the prophet Nathan.

# I will appoint a place

"I will choose a place"

# will plant them there

Yahweh causing the people to live in the land permanently and securely is spoken of as if he would plant them in the land. (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metaphor]])

# be troubled no more

This can be stated in active form. AT: "no one will ever trouble them" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-activepassive]])

# from the days

"from the time"

# I commanded judges

After the people of Israel entered the land of Canaan and before they had kings to rule them, God appointed leaders called "judges" to lead them in times of trouble.

# to be over my people Israel

To be in authority is referred to as being over someone. AT: "to rule my people Israel" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-idiom]])

# Now I will give you rest from all your enemies ... declare to you that I will make you a house

If in [2 Samuel 7:8-9](./08.md) you translated the direct quotations as indirect quotation, then here you may need to translate "you" as "him" or "his." AT: "Now I will give him rest from all his enemies ... declare to him that I will make him a house" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-quotesinquotes]] and [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-quotations]])

# I will give you rest from all your enemies

"I will give you safety from all your enemies." Here "rest" is an abstract noun. AT: "I will make all your enemies stop attacking you" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-abstractnouns]])

# I will make you a house

Here the metonym "house" refers to David's ancestors continuing on as the rulers of Israel. In [2 Samuel 7:4](./03.md) Yahweh asked David if he would be the one to build a house for Yahweh. There "house" represented a temple. If your language has a word that can express both ideas, use it here and in 7:4. (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metonymy]])