# General Information:

Yahweh continues describing his promises to King David through the prophet Nathan.

# When your days are fulfilled and you lie down with your fathers

These two phrases have similar meanings and are combined for emphasis. They both are polite ways to refer to death and dying. (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-parallelism]] and [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-euphemism]])

# I will raise up a descendant after you

Yahweh appointing David's descendant is spoken of as if Yahweh would raise or lift him up. (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metaphor]])

# one who will come out from your body

This is an idiom that means the person will be David's descendant. (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-idiom]])

# I will establish his kingdom

Here "his kingdom" represents his power to rule. AT: "I will make him to be a very powerful king" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metonymy]])

# a house for my name

Here "name" refers to Yahweh. AT: "a permanent dwelling for me" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metonymy]])

# I will establish the throne of his kingdom forever

Here "throne" represents the person's power to rule as king. AT: "I will make his rule over Israel to last forever" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metonymy]])

# I will be a father to him, and he will be my son

The prophecy in 7:12-14 refers to Solomon, David's son. But, aspects of the prophecy will be fulfilled by Jesus. So, here it is best to translate the words "father" and "son" with your normal words for a biological father and son.

# translationWords

* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/fulfill]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/father]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/raise]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/descendant]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/body]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/kingdom]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/houseofgod]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/throne]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/forever]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/son]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/sin]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/discipline]]