# For your word's sake

"Because of what you promised to do"

# to fulfill your own purpose

"to accomplish what you planned to do"

# to your servant

David refers to himself as "your servant." It can be stated in first person. AT: "to me" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-123person]])

# as we have heard with our own ears

The phrase "with our own ears" is used for emphasis. AT: "as we ourselves have heard" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-idiom]])

# as we have heard

Here "we" refers to David and the nation of Israel. (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-exclusive]])

# What nation is like your people Israel, the one nation on earth whom you, God, went and rescued for yourself?

David uses a question emphasize that there is no other nation like Israel. AT: "There is no nation like your people Israel, the one nation on earth whom you, God, went and rescued for yourself." (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-rquestion]])

# to make a name for yourself

Here "name" represents Yahweh's reputation. AT: "to make all people know who you are" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metonymy]])

# for your land

Here "land" represents the people. AT: "for your people" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metonymy]])

# You drove out nations

Here "nations" represents the people groups that were living in Canaan. (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metonymy]])

# translationWords

* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/wordofgod]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/reveal]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/servant]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/lordyahweh]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/god]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/nation]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/peopleofgod]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/earth]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/name]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/fear]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/works]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/castout]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/falsegod]]