# Some of the elders of Israel came to me and sat before me

The elders sat before Ezekiel in order to inquire of the Lord through Ezekiel. (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-explicit]])

# the word of Yahweh came

This is an idiom that is used to introduce something that God told his prophets or his people. See how you translated this in [Ezekiel 3:16](../03/16.md). AT: "Yahweh spoke this message" or "Yahweh spoke these words" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-idiom]])

# Son of man

"Son of a human being" or "Son of humanity." God calls Ezekiel this to emphasize that Ezekiel is only a human being. God is eternal and powerful, but humans are not. AT: "Mortal person" or "Human"

# have taken their idols into their hearts

Yahweh speaks of the elders committing themselves to worshiping idols as if the elders had "taken their idols into their hearts." AT: "have devoted themselves to idols" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metaphor]])

# have put the stumbling block of their iniquity before their own faces

Yahweh speaks of the idols that the elders worship as if they were blocks over which the elders stumble, and of being determined to worship those idols as if they had placed those stumbling blocks in front of their faces. AT: "have resolutely determined to worship the things that lead to iniquity" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metaphor]])

# stumbling block of their iniquity

Possible meanings are 1) the idols are a stumbling block that leads to the elders' iniquity or 2) worshiping idols is an iniquity that causes the elders to stumble.

# Should I be inquired of at all by them?

Yahweh asks this rhetorical question to emphasize that the elders should not be inquiring of him. This question can be translated as a statement. It can also be stated in active form. AT: "Should I permit them to inquire of me at all?" or "They should not be inquiring of me at all." (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-rquestion]] and [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-activepassive]])

# translationWords

* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/elder]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/israel]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/wordofgod]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/sonofman]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/idol]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/heart]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/stumblingblock]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/iniquity]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/face]]