# Therefore announce this to them

The word "them" refers to the "men from the elders of Israel."

# the house of Israel

The word "house" is a metonym for the family that lives in the house, in this case the Israelites, the descendants of Jacob over many years. See how you translated this in [Ezekiel 3:1](../03/16.md). AT: "the Israelite people group" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metonymy]])

# who takes his idols into his heart

Yahweh speaks of the people committing themselves to worshiping idols as if they had taken their idols into their hearts. See how you translated this metaphor in [Ezekiel 14:3](./01.md). AT: "who devotes himself to idols" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metaphor]])

# who puts the stumbling block of his iniquity before his face

Yahweh speaks of the idols that people worship as if they were blocks over which the people stumble, and of being determined to worship those idols as if they had placed those stumbling blocks in front of their faces. See how you translated this metaphor in [Ezekiel 14:3](./01.md). AT: "who resolutely determines to worship the things that lead to iniquity" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metaphor]])

# then comes to a prophet

A person goes to a prophet in order to inquire of the Lord. (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-explicit]])

# I, Yahweh, will answer him according to the number of his idols

This phrase refers to the many idols that the people worship. It is implied that the severity of Yahweh's answer will as great as the number of idols that they worship. AT: "I, Yahweh, will give him the answer that he deserves because he worships so many idols" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-explicit]])

# I may take back the house of Israel in their hearts

Here the word "hearts" represents the minds and affections of the people. Yahweh speaks of causing them to be devoted to him once again as if he were to capture their hearts. AT: "I will cause the people of Israel to be devoted to me again" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metonymy]] and [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metaphor]])

# their hearts that have been driven far from me through their idols

Here the word "hearts" represents the minds and affections of the people. This can be stated in active form. AT: "who have all left me to worship their idols" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metonymy]] and [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-activepassive]])

# translationWords

* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/lordyahweh]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/house]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/israel]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/prophet]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/yahweh]]