# the house of Israel

The word "house" is a metonym for the family that lives in the house, in this case the Israelites, the descendants of Jacob over many years. See how you translated this in [Ezekiel 3:1](../03/16.md). AT: "the Israelite people group" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metonymy]])

# who takes his idols into his heart

Yahweh speaks of the people committing themselves to worshiping idols as if they had taken their idols into their hearts. See how you translated this metaphor in [Ezekiel 14:3](./01.md). AT: "who devotes himself to idols" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metaphor]])

# puts the stumbling block of his iniquity before his own face

Yahweh speaks of the idols that people worship as if they were blocks over which the people stumble, and of being determined to worship those idols as if they had placed those stumbling blocks in front of their faces. See how you translated this metaphor in [Ezekiel 14:3](./01.md). AT: "who resolutely determines to worship the things that lead to iniquity" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metaphor]])

# I will set my face against that man

Yahweh speaks of being opposed to a person as if he were to set his face against that person. AT: "I will be against that man" or "I will oppose that man" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/translate-symaction]])

# set my face

Here "face" is a metonym for attention or gaze, and "set my face" refers to staring. AT: "stare" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metonymy]])

# make him a sign and a proverb

Here the word "sign" refers to something that communicates a special warning to those who see it. The word proverb refers to what people will say about that sign when they see it. AT: "I will make that man to be a warning and a proverb" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metaphor]])

# I will cut him off from the midst of my people

Yahweh speaks of causing a person no longer to belong to his people as if he were cutting that person off from the people, like a person would cut a branch from a tree. AT: "I will cause him no longer to belong to my people" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metaphor]])

# know that I am Yahweh

When Yahweh says that people will know that he is Yahweh, he is implying that they will know that he is the one true God who has supreme authority and power. See how you translated this in [Ezekiel 6:7](../06/06.md). AT: "understand that I am Yahweh, the one true God" or "realize that I, Yahweh, have supreme power and authority" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-explicit]])