# this word came from Yahweh, saying

This idiom is used to introduce a special message from God. See how you translated a similar phrase in [Jeremiah 18:1](../18/01.md), and make any changes as needed. AT: "This message came from Yahweh. He said" or "Yahweh spoke this message" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-idiom]])

# this word came from Yahweh, saying

It can be stated clearly who Yahweh gave this message to. AT: "this word came to Jeremiah from Yahweh, saying" or "Yahweh spoke this message to Jeremiah" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-explicit]])

# cities of Judah

The word "cities" is a metonym for the people who live in the city. AT: "people from the cities of Judah" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metaphor]])

# Do not cut short any word!

"Do not leave anything out from what I have told you!"

# each man will turn from his wicked ways

Yahweh speaks of a person's lifestyle as if it were a "way" or path along which the person walks. AT: "each man will stop his wicked way of living" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metaphor]])

# so I will relent concerning the disaster

This is conditional destruction. If Judah repents, God will not destroy but heal them.

# the wickedness of their practices

"the wicked way that they live" or "the wicked things that they do"

# translationWords

* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/reign]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/names/jehoiakim]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/names/josiah]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/king]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/names/kingdomofjudah]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/word]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/yahweh]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/courtyard]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/houseofgod]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/worship]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/proclaim]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/command]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/turn]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/evil]]