# General Information:

See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/translate-names]]

# Morashite

a person from the town or region of Moresheth

# Yahweh of hosts says this

Jeremiah often uses these words to introduce an important message from Yahweh. See how you translated this in [Jeremiah 6:6](../06/06.md).

# Zion will become a plowed field ... and the hill of the temple will become a thicket

"Zion" and "the hill of the temple" refer to the same place. When a farmer plows a field, he turns over all the dirt and uproots all the plants that are growing there. A thicket is so full of bushes that no one can use it for anything. These two metaphors cannot be literally true at the same time, but they emphasize that Yahweh will allow the invaders to completely destroy the temple area. (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metaphor]])

# Did Hezekiah ... put him to death?

The speakers are trying to get the hearers to agree with what they are saying. AT: "You know very well that Hezekiah ... did not put him to death." (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-rquestion]])

# all of Judah

The land is a metonym for the people who live there. AT: "all the people of Judah" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metonymy]])

# Did he not fear Yahweh and appease the face of Yahweh ... them?

The speakers are trying to get the hearers to agree with what they are saying. AT: "You know very well that he feared Yahweh and appeased the face of Yahweh so that Yahweh ... them."

# appease the face of Yahweh

The face is a synecdoche for the whole person. AT: "cause Yahweh to be less angry" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-synecdoche]])

# So will we do greater evil against our own lives?

The speakers are trying to get the hearers to agree with what they are saying. The word "lives" is a metonym for the people. AT: "If we kill Jeremiah, we will do greater evil against our own lives." or "We do not want to do worse things to ourselves." (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-rquestion]])