# Connecting Statement:

Peter finishes his speech to the believers that he began in [Acts 1:16](./15.md).

# General Information:

Here the word "us" refers to the apostles and does not include the audience to whom Peter is speaking. (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-exclusive]])

# It is necessary, therefore

Based on the scriptures that he quoted and on what Judas had done, Peter tells the group what they must do.

# one of the men who accompanied us ... must be a witness with us of his resurrection

Peter lists the qualifications for the man who is to replace Judas as an apostle.

# the Lord Jesus went in and out among us

Going in and out among a group of people is a metaphor for openly being part of that group. AT: "the Lord Jesus lived among us" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-idiom]])

# beginning from the baptism of John

The noun "baptism" can be translated as a verb. Possible meanings: 1) "beginning from when John baptized Jesus" or 2) "beginning from when John baptized people" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-abstractnouns]])

# to the day that he was taken up from us

This can be stated in active form. AT: "until the day when Jesus left us and rose up to heaven" or "until the day that God took him up from us" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-activepassive]])

# They put forward two men

Here the word "They" refers to all of the believers who were present. AT: "They proposed two men who fulfilled the requirements that Peter listed" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-explicit]])

# Joseph called Barsabbas, who was also named Justus

This can be translated with an active form. AT: "Joseph, whom people also called Barsabbas and Justus" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-activepassive]] and [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/translate-names]])

# translationWords

* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/lordgod]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/baptize]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/johnthebaptist]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/witness]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/resurrection]]