# They prayed and said

Here the word "They" refers to all of the believers, but it was probably one of the apostles who spoke these words. AT: "The believers prayed together and one of the apostles said" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-explicit]])

# You, Lord, know the hearts of all people

Here the word "hearts" refers to the thoughts and motives. AT: "You, Lord, know the thoughts and motives of everyone" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metonymy]])

# to take the place in this ministry and apostleship

Here the word "apostleship" defines what kind of "ministry" this is. AT: "to take Judas' place in this apostolic ministry" or "to take Judas' place in serving as an apostle" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-doublet]])

# from which Judas turned away

Here the expression "turned away" means that Judas stopped performing this ministry. AT: "which Judas stopped fulfilling"

# to go to his own place

This phrase refers to Judas' death and likely to his judgment after death. AT: "to go where he belongs" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-euphemism]])

# They cast lots for them

The apostles cast lots to decide between Joseph and Matthias.

# the lot fell to Matthias

The lot indicated that Matthias was the one to replace Judas.

# he was numbered with the eleven apostles

This can be stated in active form. AT: "the believers considered him to be an apostle with the other eleven" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-activepassive]])

# translationWords

* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/pray]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/lord]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/know]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/heart]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/reveal]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/minister]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/apostle]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/transgression]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/lots]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/thetwelve]]