# Did I sin by humbling myself so you might be exalted?

Paul is beginning to claim that he treated the Corinthians well. This rhetorical question can be translated as a statement, if necessary. AT: "I think we agree that I did not sin by humbling myself so you might be exalted" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-rquestion]])

# freely

"without expecting anything from you in return"

# I robbed other churches

This is an exaggeration to emphasize that Paul received money from churches who were not obligated to give to him. AT: "I accepted money from other churches" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-irony]] and [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-hyperbole]])

# I could serve you

The full meaning of this can be made explicit. AT: "I could serve you at no cost" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-explicit]])

# In everything I have kept myself from being a burden to you

"I have never in any way been a financial burden to you." Paul speaks of someone for whom one has to spend money as if they were heavy items that people have to carry. The full meaning of this can be made explicit. AT: "I have done all I can to make sure you do not have to spend money so that I can be with you" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-explicit]] and [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metaphor]])

# the brothers who came

These "brothers" were probably all male.

# I will continue to do that

"I never will be a burden to you"

# translationWords

* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/sin]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/humble]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/exalt]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/preach]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/goodnews]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/god]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/church]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/serve]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/burden]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/brother]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/macedonia]]