# nakedness

Here Paul exaggerates to show his need of clothing. AT: "without enough clothing to keep me warm" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-hyperbole]])

# there is the daily pressure on me of my anxiety

Paul knows that God will hold him responsible for how well the churches obey God and speaks of that knowledge as if it were a heavy object pushing him down. AT: "I know that God will hold me accountable for the spiritual growth of all the churches, and so I always feel like a heavy object is pushing me down" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metaphor]])

# Who is weak, and I am not weak?

This rhetorical question can be translated as a statement. AT: "Whenever anyone is weak, I feel that weakness also." (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-rquestion]])

# Who is weak, and I am not weak?

The word "weak" is probably a metaphor for a spiritual condition, but no one is sure what Paul is speaking of, so it is best to use the same word here. AT: "I am weak whenever anyone else is weak." (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metaphor]])

# Who has been caused to stumble, and I do not burn?

Paul uses this question to express his anger when a fellow believer is caused to sin. Here his anger is spoken of as a burning inside him. This rhetorical question can be translated as a statement. AT: "Whenever anyone causes a brother to sin, I am angry." (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-rquestion]] and [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metaphor]])

# has been caused to stumble

Paul speaks of sin as if it were tripping over something and then falling. AT: "has been led to sin" or "has thought that God would permit him to sin because of something that someone else did" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metaphor]])

# I do not burn

Paul speaks of being angry about sin as if he had a fire inside his body. AT: "I am not angry about it" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metaphor]])

# translationWords

* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/hard]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/works]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/church]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/stumble]]