# Now

This does not mean "at this moment", but it is a way to show that the next phase in Daniel's prayer is about to start.

# your servant ... his pleas for mercy

The words "your servant" and "his" here refer to Daniel. He speaks about himself in the third person as a sign of respect for God. (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-123person]])

# pleas for mercy

"requests for mercy"

# make your face shine on

The writer speaks of Yahweh acting favorably as if Yahweh's face shone a light. AT: "act kindly toward" or "act with favor toward" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metaphor]])

# your sanctuary

This refers to the temple in Jerusalem.

# open your ears and listen

To "open the ears" is an idiom that means to listen. These two phrases means the same thing and emphasize Daniel's desire for God to listen to his prayer. AT: "please listen" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-idiom]] and [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-doublet]])

# open your eyes and see

To "open the eyes" is an idiom that means to see. These two phrases means the same thing and emphasize Daniel's desire for God to pay attention to his prayer. AT: "notice us" or "pay attention" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-idiom]] and [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-doublet]])

# is called by your name

Here "name" represents ownership. AT: "is your city" or "belongs to you" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metonymy]])

# do not delay

This can be stated in positive form. AT: "act quickly"

# translationWords

* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/god]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/pray]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/servant]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/mercy]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/face]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/sanctuary]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/desolate]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/lord]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/devastated]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/name]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/beg]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/righteous]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/forgive]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/peopleofgod]]