# Seventy sevens ... seven sevens ... and sixty-two sevens

This is not the normal way the Israelites counted. If possible, try to translate in a way that preserves this use of the number seven. AT: "Seventy times seven years ... seven times seven years ... and sixty-two times seven years"

# Seventy sevens are decreed for your people and your holy city to

God decreed that he would do the things in this verse for the people and the holy city.

# your people and your holy city

The word "your" here refers to Daniel. The people are the Israelites and the holy city is Jerusalem. (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-you]])

# to end the guilt and put an end to sin

The idea is repeated to emphasize how certain it is that this will happen. (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-parallelism]])

# to carry out the vision

Here "carry out" is an idiom that means to accomplish. AT: "to accomplish the vision" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-idiom]])

# the vision and the prophecy

These words in this context mean the same thing. They ensure Daniel that Jeremiah's vision was indeed a prophecy. (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-doublet]])

# Know and understand

These words are used together to make the importance clear. AT: "You must clearly understand" or "You must know for sure" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-doublet]])

# the anointed one

Anointing is a symbolic act to show that someone is chosen. AT: "the person that God anoints" or "the person that God chooses" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/translate-symaction]])

# seven sevens ... and sixty-two sevens

These added together are 69 of the 70 sevens spoken of in verse 24.

# Jerusalem will be rebuilt

This can be stated in active form. AT: "People will rebuild Jerusalem" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-activepassive]])

# moat

a deep ditch around a city or building, usually with water in it

# the times of distress

"a time of great trouble"

# translationWords

* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/decree]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/peopleofgod]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/holy]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/sin]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/atonement]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/evil]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/eternity]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/righteous]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/vision]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/prophet]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/consecrate]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/holyplace]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/names/jerusalem]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/anoint]]