# But if the wronged person has no close relative to receive the payment

Usually the wronged person would receive the payment but if that person has died the payment goes to the closest relative. The full meaning of this statement can be made explicit. AT: "But if the wronged person has died and has no close relative to receive the payment" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-explicit]])

# if the wronged person

This can be stated in active form. AT: "if the person whom the guilty person has wronged" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-activepassive]])

# he must pay the price for his guilt to me through a priest

If a person made a payment to a priest to pay for his guilt it was the same as if the person had made the payment to Yahweh.

# to atone for himself

The atonement is made for the man's sin. Here Yahweh refers to the man's sin as the man who committed it. AT: "to atone for his sin" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metonymy]])

# the things that are set aside and brought to the priest by the people of Israel

This can be stated in active form. AT: "the things that the people of Israel set aside and bring to the priest" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-activepassive]])

# The offerings of every person will be for the priest; if anyone gives anything to the priest, it will belong to him

These two phrases mean basically the same thing and may be combined to state that the offerings that someone gives belong to the priest to whom they have been given. (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-parallelism]])

# translationWords

* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/receive]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/priest]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/sheep]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/atonement]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/sacrifice]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/holy]]