# under her husband

This phrase means that she is under her husband's authority. AT: "under her husband's authority" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metonymy]])

# have gone astray

The words "gone astray" is an idiom that means "to be unfaithful." AT: "have been unfaithful to your husband" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-idiom]])

# you are defiled

This can be stated in active form. AT: "you have defiled yourself" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-activepassive]])

# that can bring down a curse on her

The phrase "bring down a curse" is an idiom meaning for a curse to come upon her. AT: "that can cause a curse to come upon her" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-idiom]])

# Yahweh will make you into a curse ... your people to be such

Here the author speaks about the woman bearing the curse that Yahweh gives her, which causes other people to curse her. This is spoken of as if the woman herself becomes a curse. AT: "Because Yahweh curses you, other people will curse you as well, and Yahweh will show people that you are truly cursed" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metaphor]])

# that will be shown to your people to be such

This can be stated in active form. AT: "that he will show to your people as a curse" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-activepassive]])

# your thigh to waste away and your abdomen to swell

Possible meanings are 1) that the woman will become unable to have children or 2) that the woman's pregnancy will end too early and the baby will die.

# your thigh to waste away

Here the word "thigh" is a polite way of referring to the woman's womb or her private parts. AT: "your womb to be useless" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-euphemism]])

# translationWords

* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/defile]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/priest]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/peoplegroup]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/waste]]