# I am being poured out like water

This can be stated in active form. AT: "It is like someone is pouring me out like water" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-activepassive]])

# I am being poured out like water

The writer speaks about feeling completely exhausted and weak as if he were water being poured out of a jar. (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-simile]])

# all my bones are dislocated

"all my bones are out of place." It is possible the writer is in some kind of physical pain. Or he may be speaking of his emotional pain as if it were physical pain. (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metaphor]])

# My heart is like wax ... inner parts

The writer speaks about no longer having courage as if his heart melted like wax. Here "heart" represents "courage." (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-simile]] and [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metonymy]])

# wax

a soft substance that melts at a relatively low temperature

# within my inner parts

"inside of me"

# My strength has dried up like a piece of pottery

The writer speaks about feeling weak as if his strength were like a dry piece of pottery that can easily break. (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-simile]])

# piece of pottery

an object made of baked clay that can be used in the house

# my tongue sticks to the roof of my mouth

"my tongue sticks to the top of my mouth." The writer may be describing his extreme thirst. Or he may be continuing to speak about being weak as if he were completely dry. (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metaphor]])

# You have laid me in the dust of death

Possible meanings for "dust of death" are 1) it refers to a person turning to dust after they die. AT: "You are about to let me die and become dust" or 2) it is a way of speaking about the grave, which would mean God is causing the writer to die. AT: "You have laid me in my grave" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metaphor]])

# You have laid me

The "you" is singular and refers to God. (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-you]])

# translationWords

* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/heart]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/strength]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/tongue]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/death]]