# he has not despised or abhorred the suffering of the afflicted one

Possible meanings are 1) he has not despised the afflicted one because he is suffering or 2) he has not belittled the suffering of the afflicted one

# despised or abhorred

These two words mean basically the same thing and emphasize that God has not forgotten the one who is afflicted and suffering. (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-doublet]])

# despised

"detested" or "hated"

# abhorred

"loathed" or "scorned"

# the suffering of the afflicted one ... from him ... the afflicted one cried

Possible meanings are 1) the author was speaking about how God treats people who are suffering. AT: "those who suffer ... from them ... those who are suffering cried" or 2) the author was speaking specifically about how God treated him. AT: "my suffering because of my affliction ... from me ... I cried" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-genericnoun]] and [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-123person]])

# has not hidden his face from him

Hiding one's face from someone represents ignoring him. AT: "has not turned his attention away from him" or "has not ignored him" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metaphor]])

# he heard

"he listened." It is implied that he responded when he heard their cry. AT: "he answered" or "he helped" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-explicit]])

# because of you

Here "you" refers to Yahweh. (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-you]])

# I will fulfill my vows

This refers to sacrifices the writer promised to offer to God. (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-explicit]])

# before those who fear him

Here "him" refers to Yahweh. It can be stated as "you." AT: "in the presence of those who fear you" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-123person]])

# translationWords

* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/suffer]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/afflict]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/yahweh]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/face]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/cry]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/praise]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/assembly]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/fulfill]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/vow]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/fear]]