# The oppressed will eat and be satisfied

This refers to the fellowship meal which occurs after the writer offers to God the sacrifices that he promised. He will invite those who were suffering to eat a part of the animal he sacrificed. (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-explicit]])

# those who seek Yahweh

Those who want to know Yahweh and please him are spoken of as if they are literally seeking to find Yahweh. (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metaphor]])

# May your hearts live forever

Here "hearts" represent the whole person. AT: "May you live forever" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-synecdoche]])

# May your hearts

Here "your" is plural and refers to the oppressed people. (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-you]])

# will remember and turn to Yahweh

Starting to obey Yahweh is spoken of as if the people physically turn toward Yahweh. AT: "will remember Yahweh and obey him" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metaphor]])

# all the families of the nations will bow down before you

This means the same thing as the first part of the sentence. The writer is emphasizing that everyone from every place will worship and obey Yahweh. (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-parallelism]])

# will bow down before you

This is a sign of giving honor and respect to someone. (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/translate-symaction]])

# before you

Here "you" refers to Yahweh. It can be translated in the third person to match the first part of the sentence. AT: "before him" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-you]] and [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-123person]])

# translationWords

* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/oppress]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/seek]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/heart]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/life]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/eternity]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/peoplegroup]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/earth]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/turn]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/family]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/nation]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/bow]]