# General Information:

This section refers to animal sacrifices made by believers in God in Old Testament times, which covered their sins temporarily until the death of Christ came about.

# Do not be carried away by various strange teachings

Being persuaded by various teachings is spoken of as if a person were being carried away by a force. This can be stated in active form. AT: "Do not let others persuade you to believe their various strange teachings" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metaphor]] and [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-activepassive]])

# various strange teachings

"many, different teachings that are not the good news we told you"

# it is good that the heart should be strengthened by grace, not by foods that do not help those who walk by them

This can be stated in active form. AT: "we become stronger when we think of how God has been kind to us, but we do not become stronger by obeying rules about food" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metaphor]] and [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-activepassive]])

# the heart should be strengthened

Here "the heart" stands for a person's courage, love, and determination. These things are said to be strengthened as if they were a person's heart. (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metaphor]])

# foods

Here "foods" stands for rules about food. (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metonymy]])

# those who walk by them

Living is spoken of as if it were walking. AT: "those who live by them" or "those who regulate their lives by them" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metaphor]])

# We have an altar

Here "altar" stands for "place of worship." It also stands for the animals that the priests in the old covenant sacrificed, from which they took meat for themselves and their families. (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metonymy]])

# the blood of the animals killed for sins is brought by the high priest into the holy place

This can be stated in active form. AT: "the high priest brings into the holy place the blood of the animals that the priests killed for sins" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-activepassive]])

# while their bodies are burned

This can be stated in active form. AT: "while the priests burn the animals' bodies" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-activepassive]])

# outside the camp

"away from where the people lived"

# translationWords

* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/heart]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/grace]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/walk]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/altar]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/serve]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/tabernacle]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/sin]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/highpriest]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/holyplace]]