# sacrifices of praise

Praise is spoken of as if it were a sacrifice of animals or incense. (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metaphor]])

# praise that is the fruit of lips that acknowledge his name

Praise is spoken of as if it were fruit, and "lips" are spoken of as if they were trees bearing that fruit. In addition, "lips" represents people praising the Lord. AT: "praise that is an offering from those who acknowledge his name" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metaphor]] and [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-synecdoche]])

# his name

A person's name represents that person. AT: "him" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metonymy]])

# Let us not forget doing good and helping one another

This can be stated in positive form. AT: "Let us always remember to do good and help others" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-litotes]])

# with such sacrifices

Doing good and helping others is spoken of as if they were sacrifices on an altar. (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metaphor]])

# keep watch over your souls

The believers' souls, that is, the believers' spiritual well-being, are spoken of as if they were objects or animals that guards could keep watch over. (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metaphor]])

# not with groaning

Here "groaning" stands for sadness or grief. (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metonymy]])

# translationWords

* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/praise]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/fruit]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/acknowledge]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/name]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/obey]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/submit]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/watch]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/soul]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/joy]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/groan]]