# Connecting Statement:

Paul, as a prisoner, begins his journey to Rome.

# General Information:

The word "we" includes the author of Acts, Paul, and the others traveling with Paul, but not the reader. (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-exclusive]])

# General Information:

Adramyttium was a city possibly located on the west coast of modern-day Turkey. (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/translate-names]])

# When it was decided

This can be stated in active form. AT: "When the king and the governor decided" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-activepassive]])

# sail for Italy

Italy is the name of the province Rome was in. See how you translated "Italy" in [Acts 18:2](../18/01.md).

# they put Paul and some other prisoners under the charge of a centurion named Julius of the Imperial Regiment

"they put a centurion named Julius, of the Imperial Regiment, in charge of Paul and some other prisoners"

# they put Paul and some other prisoners

Possible meanings are that 1) "they" refers to the governor and the king or 2) "they" refers to other Roman officials.

# a centurion named Julius

Julius is a man's name. (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/translate-names]])

# the Imperial Regiment

This was the name of the battalion or army from which the centurion came. Some versions translate this as "the Augustan Regiment." (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/translate-names]])

# We boarded a ship ... which was about to sail

Here "ship ... which was about to sail" stands for the crew that will sail the ship. AT: "We boarded a ship ... which a crew was about to sail" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metonymy]])

# a ship from Adramyttium

Possible meanings are 1) a ship that had come from Adramyttium or 2) a ship that was registered or licensed in Adramyttium.

# about to sail

"soon going to sail" or "would depart soon"

# went to sea

"began our journey on the sea"

# Aristarchus

Aristarchus came from Macedonia but had been working with Paul in Ephesus. See how you translated his name in [Acts 19:29](../19/28.md).

# translationWords

* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/names/paul]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/prison]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/centurion]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/names/asia]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/names/thessalonica]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/names/macedonia]]