# General Information:

Here the word "we" refers to the writer, Paul, and those traveling with them, but not to the reader. (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-exclusive]])

# Julius treated Paul kindly

"Julius treated Paul with a friendly concern." See how you translated "Julius" in [Acts 27:1](./01.md).

# go to his friends to receive their care

The abstract noun "care" can be stated as a verb. AT: "go to his friends so they could care for him" or "go to his friends so they could help him with whatever he needed" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-abstractnouns]])

# we went to sea and sailed

"we started sailing and went"

# sailed under the lee of Cyprus, close to the island

"the lee of Cyprus" is the side of that island that blocks the strong wind, so sailing vessels are not forced off their course.

# Pamphylia

This was a province in Asia Minor. See how you translated this in [Acts 2:10](../02/08.md).

# we landed at Myra, a city of Lycia

You can make explicit that they got off of the ship in Myra. AT: "came to Myra, a city of Lycia, where we got off the ship" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-explicit]])

# landed at Myra

Myra is the name of a city. (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/translate-names]])

# a city of Lycia

Lycia was a Roman province, located on the southwestern coast of modern-day Turkey. (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/translate-names]])

# found a ship from Alexandria that was going to sail to Italy

It is implied that a crew would sail the ship to Italy. AT: "found a ship that a crew had sailed from Alexandria and was about to sail to Italy" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-explicit]])

# Alexandria

This is the name of a city. (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/translate-names]])