# We had now taken much time

Because of the direction the wind was blowing, the journey from Caesarea to Fair Havens had taken more time than planned.

# We had now taken

The writer includes himself, Paul, and those who were traveling with them, but not the reader. (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-exclusive]])

# the time of the Jewish fast also had passed, and it had now become dangerous to sail

This fast took place on the Day of Atonement, which was usually either in the last part of September or the first part of October according to Western calendars. After this time, there was a higher risk of seasonal storms.

# I see that the voyage we are about to take will be with injury and much loss

"if we travel now, we will suffer much injury and loss"

# we are about to take ... our lives

Paul includes himself and his hearers, so this is inclusive. (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-inclusive]])

# loss, not only of the cargo and the ship, but also of our lives

Here "loss" means destruction when referring to things and death when referring to people.

# not only of the cargo and the ship

Cargo is something that a person transports from one place to another by boat. AT: "not only the ship and the goods on the ship"

# that were spoken by Paul

This can be stated in active form. AT: "that Paul said" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-activepassive]])

# translationWords

* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/jew]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/fast]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/paul]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/centurion]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/lord]]