# they had hoisted the lifeboat up

"they had lifted up the lifeboat" or "they had pulled the lifeboat aboard the ship"

# they used its ropes to bind the hull of the ship

The "hull" is the body of the ship. They tied ropes around it so that the ship would not come apart during the storm.

# sandbars of Syrtis

Sandbars are very shallow areas in the sea where ships can get stuck in the sand. Syrtis is located on the coast of Libya, northern Africa. (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/translate-names]])

# they lowered the sea anchor

They put the ship's anchor in the water in order to slow down where the wind would blow them.

# anchor

An anchor is a heavy object attached to a rope that is secured to the boat. The anchor is tossed into the water and sinks to the bottom of the sea keeping the ship from drifting about. See how you translated this in [Acts 27:13](./12.md).

# were driven along

This can be stated in active form. AT: "had to go in whatever direction the wind blew us" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-activepassive]])

# We took such a violent battering by the storm

This can be stated in active form. AT: "The wind blew us roughly back and forth that all of us were badly battered and bruised by the storm" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-activepassive]])

# they began throwing the cargo overboard

"they" is the sailors. This is done to lighten the weight of the ship in an effort to prevent the ship from sinking.

# cargo

Cargo is something that a person transports from one place to another by boat. See how you translated this in [Acts 27:10](./09.md). AT: "goods on the ship."