# Connecting Statement:

The fierce storm continues.

# When the fourteenth night had come

The ordinal number "fourteenth" can be translated as "fourteen" or "14." AT: "After 14 days since the storm started, that night" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/translate-ordinal]] and [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/translate-numbers]])

# as we were driven this way and that

This can be stated in active form. AT: "as the wind blew us back and forth" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-activepassive]])

# the Adriatic Sea

This is the sea between Italy and Greece. (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/translate-names]])

# They took soundings

"They measured the depth of the sea water." They measured the depth of water by dropping a line with a weight tied to the end of it into the water.

# found twenty fathoms

"found 20 fathoms." A "fathom" is a unit of measurement for measuring the depth of water. One fathom is about two meters. AT: "found 40 meters" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/translate-numbers]])

# found fifteen fathoms

"found 15 fathoms." A "fathom" is a unit of measurement for measuring the depth of water. One fathom is about two meters. AT: "found 30 meters" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/translate-numbers]])

# anchors

An anchor is a heavy object attached to a rope that is secured to the boat. The anchor is tossed into the water and sinks to the bottom of the sea, keeping the ship from drifting about. See how you translated this in [Acts 27:13](./12.md).

# from the stern

"from the back of the ship"

# translationWords

* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/fear]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/pray]]