# of his separation

Here "separation" means "dedication." Also, this abstract noun can be expressed as a verb. AT: "of his dedication" or "that he has dedicated himself" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-idiom]] or [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-abstractnouns]])

# He must be brought

This can be stated in active form. AT: "Someone must bring him" or "He must go" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-activepassive]])

# He must present his offering to Yahweh

He must bring his offering to the priest to be sacrificed to Yahweh. The full meaning of this statement can be made clear. AT: "He must present his offering to Yahweh by bringing it to the priest to be sacrificed" or "He must present his offering to Yahweh by bringing it to the priest who will sacrifice it" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-explicit]])

# bread made without yeast

This can be stated in active form. AT: "bread he made without yeast" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-activepassive]])

# fine flour mixed with oil

This can be stated in active form. AT: "fine flour that he mixed with oil" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-activepassive]])

# wafers without yeast rubbed with oil

This can be stated in active form. AT: "wafers without yeast which he rubbed with oil" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-activepassive]])

# wafers without yeast

small pieces of flat bread

# together with their grain offering and drink offerings

The word "their" refers to the other offerings that the Nazirite man was told to bring. Often grain offerings and drink offerings were required to accompany other types of sacrifices. The full meaning of this statement can be made clear. AT: "together with the grain offering and drink offering that Yahweh required to accompany the other offerings" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-explicit]])

# translationWords

* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/law]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/nazirite]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/blemish]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/sheep]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/fellowshipoffering]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/bread]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/yeast]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/oil]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/grainoffering]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/drinkoffering]]