# Connecting Statement:

Paul lets Timothy know that in the future people will stop believing the truth, but he should continuing trusting God's word even when he is persecuted.

# In the last days

Possible meanings are 1) this is a time later than Paul's time. AT: "in the future just before Jesus returns" or 2) this refers to the Christian age, including Paul's time. AT: "during this period of time before the end"

# difficult times

These will be days, months, or even years when Christians will endure suffering and danger.

# lovers of themselves

Here "lovers" refers to brotherly love or love for a friend or family member, a natural human love between friends or relatives. This is not the kind of love that comes from God. AT: "self-centered"

# boastful

talking about oneself in a proud way

# without natural affection

"not loving their own families"

# unable to reconcile

"not agreeing with anyone" or "not living in peace with anyone"

# slanderers

"false accusers"

# not lovers of good

This can be stated in positive form. AT: "haters of good"

# reckless

"impulsive" or "foolhardy." This describes people who do things without thinking about the consequences or even though they know that bad things could happen as a result.

# conceited

"the type of people who think they are better than others"

# translationWords

* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/lastday]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/love]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/boast]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/haughty]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/blasphemy]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/disobey]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/holy]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/slander]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/selfcontrol]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/good]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/betray]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/god]]