# For I say

The word "I" refers to Paul.

# Christ has been made a servant of the circumcision

Here "the circumcision" is a metonym that refers to the Jews. You can translate this in an active form. AT: "Jesus Christ has become a servant of the Jews" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metonymy]] and [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-activepassive]])

# in order to confirm the promises ... and for the Gentiles to glorify God for his mercy

These are the two purposes for which Christ became a servant of the circumcision. AT: "in order to confirm the promises ... and in order that the Gentiles might glorify God for his mercy"

# the promises given to the fathers

Here "the fathers" refers to the ancestors of the Jewish people. You can translate this in active form. AT: "the promises that God gave to the ancestors of the Jews" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-explicit]] and [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-activepassive]])

# As it is written

You can translate this in an active form. AT: "as someone has written in the Scriptures" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-activepassive]])

# sing praise to your name

Here "your name" is a metonym that refers to God. AT: "sing praise to you" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metonymy]])

# translationWords

* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/christ]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/servant]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/circumcise]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/true]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/god]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/promise]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/gentile]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/glory]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/mercy]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/written]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/raise]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/praise]]