# you defiled my land, you made my inheritance an abomination!

These two phrases mean the same thing. AT: "you sinned and made the land I gave you disgusting to me!" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-parallelism]])

# you defiled my land

Here "defiled" represents making the land unacceptable to God. They did this by sinning against him there when they worshiped idols. AT: "by sinning, you made my land no good" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metaphor]])

# you made my inheritance an abomination

"you made my inheritance disgusting by your sin" or "by sinning, you made my inheritance repulsive"

# my inheritance

Possible meanings are 1) God is speaking of his land as if he had inherited it. AT: "my land" or 2) God is speaking of the land he gave to Israel as if he had given it to them as an inheritance. AT: "the land I gave you" or "the land I gave you as an inheritance" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metaphor]])

# Where is Yahweh?

This question would have shown that they wanted to obey Yahweh. AT: "We need to obey Yahweh!" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-rquestion]])

# did not care about me

"were not committed to me" or "rejected me"

# The shepherds transgressed against me

The leaders are spoken of as if they were shepherds and the people who followed them were sheep. AT: "Their leaders sinned against me" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metaphor]])

# walked after unprofitable things

Here "walked after" represents obeying or worshiping. AT: "obeyed unprofitable things" or "worshiped unprofitable things" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metaphor]])

# unprofitable things

Unprofitable things are things that cannot help a person. Here it refers to idols.