# So I will still accuse you

Yahweh is speaking to the people of Israel.

# this is Yahweh's declaration

Yahweh speaks of himself by name to express the certainty of what he is declaring. See how you translated this in [Jeremiah 1:8](../01/07.md). AT: "this is what Yahweh has declared" or "this is what I, Yahweh, have declared" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-123person]])

# your sons' sons

"your future generations"

# cross over to the coasts of Kittim

Kittim was an island west of Israel. Today it is called Cyprus. It represented all the lands far to the west of Israel. AT: "go west across the ocean to Kittim" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/translate-names]])

# Send messengers out to Kedar

Kedar is the name of a land far to the east of Israel. AT: "Send messengers far east to the land of Kedar" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/translate-names]])

# Has a nation exchanged gods ... gods?

God uses this question to tell the people of Israel that other nations continue to worship their own gods. They do not change and worship other gods. AT: "You will see that no nation has ever exchanged gods ... gods." (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-rquestion]])

# But my people have exchanged their glory for what cannot help them

Here God speaks as though he were not speaking directly to his people. AT: "But you, my people, have exchanged me, your glorious God, for what cannot help you" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-123person]])

# their glory

This expression refers to God himself, who is glorious. AT: "their glorious God" or "me, your glorious God" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metonymy]])

# for what cannot help

Here false gods are spoken of in terms of what they cannot do. AT: "for false gods, which cannot help" or "for gods who cannot help" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metonymy]])