# Shudder, heavens, because of this! Be shocked and horrified

Yahweh turns and talks to the heavens as if they were there listening to him. God says this to express that what Israel has done is terrible. (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-apostrophe]])

# Shudder, heavens, because of this! Be shocked and horrified

Possible meanings are 1) God speaks to the creatures in the heavens or 2) God speaks to the heavens themselves as if they were people. (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-personification]])

# this is Yahweh's declaration

Yahweh speaks of himself by name to express the certainty of what he is declaring. See how you translated this in [Jeremiah 1:8](../01/07.md). AT: "this is what Yahweh has declared" or "this is what I, Yahweh, have declared" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-123person]])

# have abandoned the springs of living waters

God speaks of himself as if he were springs of living waters. AT: "have abandoned me, their springs of living waters" or "have abandoned me, who is like springs of living water" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metaphor]])

# have dug out cisterns for themselves

God speaks of false gods as if they were cisterns that people dig in order to get water. AT: "have gone to false gods, which are like cisterns they have dug for themselves" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metaphor]])

# cisterns

deep holes for storing water

# translationWords

* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/heaven]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/horror]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/commit]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/evil]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/fountain]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/well]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/water]]