# So now, why take the road to Egypt and drink the waters of Shihor? Why take the road to Assyria and drink the waters of the Euphrates River?

Yahweh uses these questions to remind his people that it does not do any good to ask Egypt and Assyria to help them. AT: "It does not help you to go to Egypt and drink from the waters of the Shihor River, or to go to Assyria and drink from the waters of the Euphrates River." (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-rquestion]])

# why take the road to Egypt and drink the waters of Shihor ... Why take the road to Assyria and drink the waters of the Euphrates River

These are a metaphor for asking the Egyptian and Assyrian armies to help them. AT: "why ask the Egyptians to help you ... Why ask the Assyrians to help you" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metaphor]])

# Shihor

This is the name of a stream associated with Egypt. It may have been a branch of the Nile River. Some versions call it the Nile. AT: "the Shihor Stream" or "the Shihor River" or "the Nile River" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/translate-names]])

# Your wickedness rebukes you, and your faithlessness punishes you

Both of these phrases mean that their punishment is the result of their wicked behavior. AT: "Because you have been wicked and unfaithful, I will punish you" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-personification]] and [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-parallelism]])

# it is wicked and bitter

Here the word "bitter" describes "wicked." AT: "it is bitterly wicked" or "it is extremely wicked" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-hendiadys]])

# translationWords

* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/egypt]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/assyria]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/euphrates]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/evil]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/rebuke]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/faithless]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/punish]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/lordyahweh]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/yahwehofhosts]]