# For I broke your yoke that you had in ancient days; I tore your fetters off you. Still you said, 'I will not serve!'

Here "broke your yoke" and "tore your fetters off you" are metaphors for setting them free from slavery. The people of Israel had been slaves in Egypt. AT: "Long ago I released you from slavery, but still you refused to worship me!" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metaphor]])

# fetters

chains used to restrain a person or an animal

# since you bowed down on every high hill and beneath every leafy tree, you adulterer

What they bowed down to can be stated clearly. Here "adulterer" is a metaphor for someone who is unfaithful to God. AT: "You bowed down to idols and worshiped them instead of me, like an adulterous wife who is unfaithful to her husband" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metaphor]])

# beneath

below

# I planted you as a choice vine, completely from pure seed

God speaks of making his people into a great nation in Canaan as if they were the seed of a grapevine that he had planted. AT: "I, Yahweh, started you with a very good beginning, like a farmer who uses excellent seed to plant the best kind of vine" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metaphor]])

# a choice vine

"a vine of very good quality"

# completely from pure seed

Here "pure seed" is the best seed that has not been mixed with seed that is not good. AT: "that grew from excellent seed"

# How then have you have changed yourself into a corrupt, worthless vine?

God uses this question to rebuke his people for changing and becoming like a corrupt worthless vine. AT: "But you have changed yourself into a corrupt, worthless vine!" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-rquestion]])

# your iniquity is a stain before me

Something that is unacceptable to God is spoken of as being unclean. Here "stain" represents the constant reminder of Israel's sin. AT: "I see your sin like a stain" or "your sin is like a stain; your guilt remains" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metaphor]])

# this is the declaration of the Lord Yahweh

Yahweh speaks of himself by name to express the certainty of what he is declaring. See how you translated a similar phrase in [Jeremiah 1:8](../01/07.md). AT: "this is what the Lord Yahweh has declared" or "this is what I, the Lord Yahweh, have declared" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-123person]])

# translationWords

* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/yoke]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/serve]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/bow]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/adultery]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/vine]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/true]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/seed]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/foreigner]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/clean]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/iniquity]]