# How can you say, 'I ... have not walked after the Baals'?

God uses this question to rebuke his people for saying that they have not worshiped the Baals. AT: "You lie when you say, 'I ... have not walked after the Baals.' (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-rquestion]])

# walked after

This is a metaphor for serving or worshiping. (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metaphor]])

# you are a swift female camel running here and there

God speaks of Israel worshiping other gods as if they were like a female camel running in different directions looking for a male camel to mate with. AT: "You are like a swift female camel running back and forth looking for a male camel to mate with" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metaphor]])

# swift

"fast" or "quick"

# a wild donkey accustomed to the wilderness, in her heat sniffing the wind

God speaks of Israel worshiping other gods as if they were a wild female donkey running to find male donkeys. AT: "You are like a young female donkey that lives in the desert. When she wants to mate she is out of control and constantly sniffs the breeze to find a mate" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metaphor]])

# in her heat

This phrase is an idiom referring to the time when a female donkey wants to mate with male donkeys. AT: "when she wants to mate" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-idiom]])

# Who can restrain her lust?

This question is used to emphasize that no one can control a female donkey when she is wants to mate with a male donkey. AT: "No one can turn her around when she wants to mate." (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-rquestion]])

# You must restrain your feet from becoming bare and your throat from being thirsty!

God speaks of Israel wanting to worship other gods as if they were running around in the desert looking for those gods. AT: "I have told you to stop running here and there chasing after false gods, because all that it does is wear out your sandals and make you very thirsty" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metaphor]])

# It is hopeless

"There is no hope for us to restrain ourselves." This implies that they cannot stop themselves from running after other gods. AT: "We cannot stop ourselves" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-explicit]])

# No, I love strangers and go after them!

Here "strangers" represents foreign gods, and "go after them" represents worshiping them. AT: "We must follow after foreign gods and worship them!'" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metaphor]])

# translationWords

* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/defile]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/baal]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/understand]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/camel]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/donkey]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/desert]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/love]]