# Will a virgin forget her jewelry, a bride her veils

The words "will" and "forget" are understood to be part of the second phrase also. AT: "Will a virgin forget her jewelry, and will a bride forget her veils" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-ellipsis]])

# Will a virgin forget her jewelry, a bride her veils?

God uses this question to introduce the idea of remembering things that are important to someone. AT: "You know that a virgin would never forget to put on her jewelry, and a bride would never forget to put on her veils." (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-rquestion]])

# days without number

"a very long time"

# How well you make your way to look for love

God appears to be praising his people for looking for love, but this is irony. He was showing that he was angry with them for being unfaithful to him. (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-irony]])

# to look for love

God speaks of his people worshiping other gods as if they were a woman who is unfaithful to her husband and is looking for other men to love her. (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metaphor]])

# You have even taught your ways to wicked women

God speaks of how unfaithful his people are to him as though they were even teaching prostitutes how to be unfaithful to their husbands and find other men to be their lovers. (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-irony]])

# The blood that was the life of innocent, poor people has been found on your clothes

Blood on their clothes was evidence that they had killed people. AT: "The blood of innocent, poor people on your clothes shows that you are guilty of killing them" or "You are guilty of killing poor and innocent people" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-explicit]])

# The blood that was the life

"The blood that represents the life"

# These people were not discovered in acts of burglary

If they found people in an act of burglary, this might have been an excuse for killing them. But the people that they murdered were innocent. This can be translated in active form. AT: "You did not discover these people stealing things" or "But you killed them even though they were not even stealing anything" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-activepassive]])

# translationWords

* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/virgin]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/bride]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/veil]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/love]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/evil]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/blood]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/innocent]]