# They will all be ashamed and disgraced together; those who carve idols will walk in humiliation

These two lines share similar meanings, with the second clarifying the subject of the first. (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-parallelism]])

# They will all be ashamed and disgraced together

The words "ashamed" and "disgraced" mean basically the same thing and emphasize the intensity of shame. This can be stated in active form. AT: "Their idols will leave them all completely ashamed" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-doublet]] and [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-activepassive]])

# will walk in humiliation

Living in continual humiliation is spoken of as if it were walking in humiliation. AT: "will be continually humiliated" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metaphor]])

# Israel will be saved by Yahweh

This can be stated in active form. AT: "Yahweh will save the people of Israel" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-activepassive]])

# you will never again be ashamed or humiliated

Here "you" refers to the people of Israel. The words "ashamed" and "humiliated" mean basically the same thing. This can be stated in active form. AT: "No one will ever humiliate you again" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-activepassive]] and [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-doublet]])

# translationWords

* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/shame]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/falsegod]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/walk]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/humiliate]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/israel]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/save]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/yahweh]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/eternity]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/save]]