# on the fourth day

"on day 4" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/translate-ordinal]])

# Kislev (which was the ninth month)

"Kislev" is the ninth month of the Hebrew calendar. The fourth day of Kislev is near the end of November on Western calendars. (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/translate-hebrewmonths]] and [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/translate-names]])

# the word of Yahweh came to Zechariah

This idiom is used to introduce a special message from God. AT: "Yahweh gave a message to Zechariah" or "Yahweh spoke this message to Zechariah" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-idiom]])

# Sharezer and Regem-Melek

These are the names of men. (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/translate-names]])

# beg

Here the word "beg" means to plead or ask urgently.

# before the face of Yahweh

Here "face" is a metonym for Yahweh's presence. AT: "in the presence of Yahweh" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metonymy]])

# They spoke ... they said

The word "they" refers to Sharezer and Regem Melek.

# Should I mourn in the fifth month

"Should I mourn in month 5." The assumed knowledge is that the Jewish people fasted during a part of the fifth month of the Hebrew calendar because this is when the Babylonians destroyed the temple in Jerusalem. The fifth month is during the last part of July and the first part of August on Western calendars. (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/translate-ordinal]] and [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-explicit]] and [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/translate-hebrewmonths]])

# by means of a fast

"by fasting"

# translationWords

* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/king]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/darius]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/biblicaltimeyear]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/biblicaltimeday]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/wordofgod]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/zechariahot]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/bethel]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/beg]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/priest]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/houseofgod]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/yahwehofhosts]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/prophet]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/mourn]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/fast]]