# Abner called

"Abner shouted" or "Abner yelled"

# Must the sword devour forever?

This rhetorical question emphasizes that the battle had already continued too long. Here "sword" refers to the fighting. The killing in the battle is spoken of as if a wild animal was eating the soldiers. AT: "We do not need to keep using our swords to fight and kill each other." (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-rquestion]] and [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metonymy]] and [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metaphor]])

# Do you not know it will be bitter in the end?

This rhetorical question is used to force Joab to acknowledge that continued fighting could only result in more suffering. Here "bitter" is a euphemism for the terrible suffering that would occur. AT: "You know very well that there will be a terrible result if this continues!" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-rquestion]] and [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-euphemism]])

# How long will it be before you tell your men to stop pursuing their brothers?

This rhetorical question is intended to convince Joab to stop fighting their fellow Israelites. Here "brother" is used to represent the members of the nation of Israel. AT: "Stop this now so that Israelites will not have to kill each other!" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-rquestion]] and [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metonymy]])

# Just as God lives

This is a very strong vow. AT: "With God as my witness" or "God will affirm that I mean what I say"

# if you had not said that ... pursued their brothers until the morning

This hypothetical statement tells what might have happened if Abner had not spoken wisely to Joab. (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-hypo]])

# translationWords

* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/names/abner]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/names/joab]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/devour]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/eternity]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/know]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/god]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/life]]