# contempt comes with him—along with shame and reproach

Here "contempt," "shame," and "reproach" are spoken of as if they are people who accompany a wicked man. Possible meanings are 1) people show contempt towards the wicked man and cause him to feel shame and reproach. AT: "people feel contempt for him along with shame and reproach" or 2) the wicked man shows contempt for others and causes them to feel shame and reproach. AT: "he shows his contempt for other people and causes them to feel shame and reproach" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-personification]])

# shame and reproach

These two words have similar meaning and are used together to emphasize the "shame" felt by either the wicked man or other people. (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-doublet]])

# The words of a man's mouth are deep waters; ... the fountain of wisdom is a flowing stream

These two lines are parallel and it is implied that the man in the first line is a wise man. AT: "The words of a wise man's mouth are deep waters; ... the fountain of wisdom is a flowing stream" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-parallelism]] and [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-explicit]])

# The words of a man's mouth are deep waters

This speaks of a wise man's words being profound as if they were profound and as deep as deep waters. AT: "The words of a man's mouth are as profound as deep waters" or "The words of a man's mouth are deep and profound" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metaphor]])

# a man's mouth

Here the man is referred to by his mouth to emphasize what he says. AT: "of a man" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-synecdoche]])

# the fountain of wisdom is a flowing stream

This speaks of the source of wisdom being plentiful as if it were a gushing spring. The gushing of the spring is spoken of as if it were a flowing stream. AT: "the source of wisdom is as plentiful as the water of a gushing spring" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metaphor]])

# translationWords

* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/evil]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/contempt]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/shame]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/reproach]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/word]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/water]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/fountain]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/wise]]