# General Information:

Parallelism is common in Hebrew poetry. (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/writing-poetry]] and [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-parallelism]])

# For the chief musician

"This is for the director of music to use in worship."

# A psalm of David

Possible meanings are 1) David wrote the psalm or 2) the psalm is about David or 3) the psalm is in the style of David's psalms.

# in your strength, Yahweh

It is implied that this is strength Yahweh has given the king to defeat his enemies. AT: because you, Yahweh, have made him strong enough to defeat his enemies"

# How greatly he rejoices

"He rejoices greatly"

# in the salvation you provide

It is implied that God has saved the king from his enemies. The abstract noun "salvation" can be stated as a verb. AT: "because you have saved him from his enemies" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-explicit]] and [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-abstractnouns]])

# his heart's desire

"his heart's wish." Here "heart" stands for the whole person. AT: "his desire" or "what he wished for" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-synecdoche]])

# have not held back

"have not refused him." This can be stated in positive form. AT: "you have given him" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-doublenegatives]])

# the request of his lips

Here "lips" stands for the whole person. AT: "his request" or "what he requested of you" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-synecdoche]])

# Selah

This may be a musical term that tells people how to sing or play their instruments. Some translations write the Hebrew word, and some translations do not include it. See how you translated this in [Psalms 3:2](../003/001.md). (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/translate-transliterate]])

# translationWords

* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/psalm]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/names/david]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/king]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/rejoice]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/strength]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/yahweh]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/salvation]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/heart]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/selah]]