# General Information:

Parallelism is common in Hebrew poetry. (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/writing-poetry]] and [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-parallelism]])

# A psalm of David

Possible meanings are 1) David wrote the psalm or 2) the psalm is about David or 3) the psalm is in the style of David's psalms.

# I lift up my life

The phrase "lift up my life" is a metaphor. Possible meanings are 1) the writer is giving himself to Yahweh, which means he is completely depending on Yahweh. AT: "I give myself to you" or 2) he is offering prayer and adoration to Yahweh. AT: "I worship and adore you" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metaphor]])

# Do not let me be humiliated

This can be stated in active form. AT: "Do not let my enemies humiliate me" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-activepassive]])

# humiliated

"ashamed"

# rejoice triumphantly over me

"rejoice in triumph over me." The phrase "over me" implies that his enemies have defeated him and stand above in victory. AT: "defeat me and rejoice about it" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-idiom]])

# May no one who hopes in you be disgraced

"Do not let those who hope in you be disgraced." Disgrace could come from being defeated by their enemies. This can be stated in active form. AT: "Do not let enemies defeat those who hope in you" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-explicit]] and [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-activepassive]])

# who hopes in you

"who trusts you"

# act treacherously

"act deceitfully" or "act with trickery"

# without cause

"without a reason"