# Call to mind

This is an idiom. This does not mean God forgot something. The writer is asking God to think about and consider his acts of compassion and faithfulness. AT: "Remember" or "Think about" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-idiom]])

# your acts of compassion and of covenant faithfulness

The abstract nouns "compassion" and "faithfulness" can be stated as adjectives. AT: "how you have been compassionate and faithful to your covenant" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-abstractnouns]])

# for they have always existed

Here "they" personifies God's compassion and covenant faithfulness. AT: "for that is how you have always been" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-personification]])

# Do not think about the sins of my youth

The abstract noun "sins" can be stated as "sinned." AT: "Do not think about how I sinned against you when I was young" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-abstractnouns]])

# or my rebelliousness

The abstract noun "rebelliousness" can be stated as "rebelled." AT: or about how I have rebelled against you" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-abstractnouns]])

# Call me to mind

This is an idiom. This does not mean God forgot something. The writer is asking God to think about him. AT: "Remember me" or "Think about me" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-idiom]])

# with covenant faithfulness because of your goodness

The abstract nouns "faithfulness" and "goodness" can be stated as adjectives. AT: "and be faithful to me because of your covenant, because you are good" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-abstractnouns]])

# translationWords

* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/mind]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/compassion]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/covenantfaith]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/sin]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/rebel]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/good]]