# General Information:

Yahweh is talking to Ezekiel in this section.

# the word of Yahweh came

This is an idiom that is used to introduce something that God told his prophets or his people. See how you translated this in [Ezekiel 3:16](../03/16.md). AT: "Yahweh spoke this message" or "Yahweh spoke these words" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-idiom]])

# Son of man

"Son of a human being" or "Son of humanity." God calls Ezekiel this to emphasize that Ezekiel is only a human being. God is eternal and powerful, but humans are not. AT: "Mortal person" or "Human"

# how is a vine better than any tree with branches that is among the trees in a forest?

Yahweh asks this rhetorical question to remind Ezekiel of something he already knows. This can be translated as a statement. AT: "a vine is not better than any tree with branches that is among the trees in a forest." (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-rquestion]])

# Do people take wood from a vine to make anything?

Yahweh asks this rhetorical question to remind Ezekiel of something he already knows. This can be translated as a statement. AT: "People do not take wood from a vine to make anything." (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-rquestion]])

# do they make a peg from it to hang anything on it?

Yahweh asks this rhetorical question to remind Ezekiel of something he already knows. This can be translated as a statement. AT: "they do not make a peg from it to hang things on it." (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-rquestion]])

# If it is thrown into a fire as fuel ... is it good for anything?

Yahweh asks this rhetorical question to remind Ezekiel of something he already knows. This can be translated as a statement. AT: "If it is thrown into a fire as fuel ... it is not good for anything." (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-rquestion]])

# If it is thrown into a fire as fuel

This can be stated in active form. AT: "If a person throws it into a fire as fuel" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-activepassive]])

# translationWords

* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/wordofgod]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/sonofman]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/vine]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/fire]]