# This is what you must say to him

Yahweh is telling Jeremiah what to say to Baruch.

# what I built, I am now tearing down. What I planted, I am now pulling up

Both of these metaphors mean the same thing. Yahweh destroying the people of the nation of Judah is spoken of as if the nation were a building he would tear down or a plant that he will pull up. AT: "this nation is like a building that I built, but I am now tearing down. It is like a plant that I planted, but I am now pulling out of the ground" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-parallelism]] and [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metaphor]])

# But are you hoping for great things for yourself?

Yahweh uses a question to state that he knows Baruch is hoping for others to treat him in a special way. AT: "I know you hope for great things for yourself." or "I know you hope others will honor you." (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-rquestion]])

# For see

"For understand" or "Be aware"

# disaster is coming on all humanity

Causing disaster to happen is spoken of as if disaster were something that could travel and arrive at a place. AT: "I will cause all of humanity to experience disaster" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metaphor]])

# this is Yahweh's declaration

Yahweh speaks of himself by name to express the certainty of what he is declaring. See how you translated this in [Jeremiah 1:8](../01/07.md). AT: "this is what Yahweh has declared" or "this is what I, Yahweh, have declared" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-123person]])

# your life as your plunder everywhere you will go

Allowing Baruch to escape and remain alive is spoken of as if his life were plunder that he would take after a battle. AT: "but wherever you go, I will protect you and allow you to live" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metaphor]])

# plunder

things stolen from a place by force