# the provocation of a fool is heavier than both

The difficulty of being patient with a fool who provokes you is spoken of as if that difficulty were heavy. AT: "the provocation of a fool is harder to tolerate than either of them" or "It is harder to be patient when a fool provokes you than it is to be patient while carrying them" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metaphor]])

# the provocation of a fool

"the trouble caused by a fool." "Provocation" means actions or words that cause anger or irritation.

# There is the cruelty of rage and the flood of anger, but who is able to stand before jealousy?

The abstract nouns "rage", "anger" and "jealousy" can be translated as adjectives. AT: "A raging person is cruel and an angry person is overwhelming, but who can stand before a jealous person?" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-abstractnouns]])

# cruelty

"harshness"

# the flood of anger

"the destructiveness of anger." Anger is spoken of here as if it were a powerful flood. (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metaphor]])

# but who is able to stand before jealousy?

This question implies that no one can stand before jealousy. It can be reworded as a statement. AT: "but no one is able to stand before jealousy" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-rquestion]]).

# to stand before jealousy

Here standing represents being strong and resisting being harmed by a jealous person who attacks. AT: "to resist a jealous person" or "to remain strong when a jealous person attacks him" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metaphor]])