# the one who is left in Zion and the one who remains in Jerusalem

Both of these statements mean the same thing. Here "the one who" does not refer to a specific person but to people in general who are still alive in Jerusalem. AT: "everyone who remains in Jerusalem" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-parallelism]] and [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-genericnoun]])

# will be called holy

This can be stated in active form. AT: "the Lord will call them holy" or "will belong to the Lord" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-activepassive]])

# everyone who is written down as living in Jerusalem

This can be stated in active form. AT: "everyone whose name is on the list of the people who live in Jerusalem" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-activepassive]])

# when the Lord will have washed away the filth of the daughters of Zion

This expression speaks of sin as if it were physical dirt. AT: "after the Lord removes the sins of the daughters of Zion as someone washes away filth" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metaphor]])

# the daughters of Zion

Possible meanings are 1) the women of Jerusalem or 2) the people of Jerusalem.

# will have cleansed the blood stains from Jerusalem's midst

"Blood stains" here represents violence and murder. AT: "will have taken away those in Jerusalem who harm innocent people" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metonymy]])

# by means of the spirit of judgment and the spirit of flaming fire

This is how God would remove the sin from Jerusalem. Here "spirit" probably represents the activity of judging and burning. AT: "by judgment and flaming fire" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metaphor]])

# spirit of judgment

Possible meanings are 1) Yahweh will punish the people or 2) Yahweh will declare the people guilty.

# the spirit of flaming fire

Possible meanings are 1) this is a metaphor that means Yahweh will remove sinners from Zion like a fire removes impurities or 2) "flaming fire" is a metonym that represents the destruction in general of all the sinners. (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metaphor]] and [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metonymy]])

# translationWords

* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/zion]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/jerusalem]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/holy]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/lordgod]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/clean]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/blood]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/spirit]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/judge]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/fire]]