# Howl

"Cry out loud"

# the day of Yahweh is near

Something that is about to happen soon is spoken of as if it is coming near. AT: "the day of Yahweh will happen soon" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metaphor]])

# it comes with destruction from the Almighty

The word "it" refers to the day of Yahweh. "It comes with destruction" means that destruction will happen on that day. "Destruction from the Almighty" means that the Almighty will destroy them. AT: "on that day, the Almighty God will destroy them" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metaphor]] and [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-abstractnouns]])

# all hands hang limp

This shows that all the people are very weak and unable to do anything.

# every heart melts

People being terribly afraid is spoken of as if their hearts melt. AT: "everyone is terribly afraid" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metaphor]])

# pain and agony will seize them

People suddenly feeling terrible pain and sorrow is spoken of as if the pains and sorrows were people who grab them. AT: "they will suddenly feel terrible pain and agony" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-personification]])

# like a woman in labor

Being in labor represents giving birth to a baby. AT: "like a woman giving birth to a baby" or "like the pain of a woman who is giving birth to a baby" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metaphor]])

# their faces will be aflame

Their faces being hot and red is spoken of as if they were burning. Possible reasons for their faces being hot are 1) the people are very afraid or 2) the people feel ashamed or 3) the people cry. AT: "their faces will be hot and red" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metaphor]])

# translationWords

* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/dayofthelord]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/almighty]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/heart]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/seize]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/laborpains]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/amazed]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/face]]