# Connecting Statement:

Yahweh continues to talk about what he will do on the day of Yahweh.

# the world

This refers to people. AT: "the people of the world" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metonymy]])

# the wicked ... the proud ... the ruthless

These phrases refer to people who have these qualities. AT: "wicked people ... proud people ... ruthless people" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-nominaladj]])

# the ruthless

"cruel people"

# will bring down the arrogance of the ruthless

Being low often represents being humble. Bringing down people's arrogance represents making them humble. AT: "will humble the ruthless" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metaphor]])

# I will make men more rare than fine gold

Why there will be so few people can be stated clearly. AT: "I will cause so many people to die that living people will be more rare than fine gold" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-explicit]])

# men more rare than fine gold ... mankind harder to find than the pure gold of Ophir

These two phrases mean basically the same thing. (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-parallelism]])

# pure gold of Ophir

Ophir was the name of a place where there was pure gold. (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/translate-names]])

# translationWords

* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/punish]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/world]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/evil]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/iniquity]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/arrogant]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/proud]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/gold]]