# Every one who is found will be killed ... every one who is captured will die by the sword

These two phrases mean basically the same thing. This can be stated in active form. AT: "The enemy will kill with the sword everyone they find" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-parallelism]] and [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-activepassive]])

# Their infants also will be dashed in pieces

This can be stated in active form. AT: "The enemy will also dash their infants to pieces" or "The enemy will beat their infants until they die" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-activepassive]])

# before their eyes

Here the people are represented by their "eyes" to emphasize what they see. It can be stated clearly that the parents are unable to help their infants. AT: "in front of them" or "while their parents helplessly watch" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-explicit]] and [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-synecdoche]])

# Their houses will be plundered

This means that everything valuable will be stolen from their houses. This can be stated in active form. AT: "The enemy will plunder the people's houses" or "The enemy will steal everything valuable from the people's houses" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-activepassive]])

# their wives raped

This means that the enemies will attack the women and force them to have sex with them. The words "will be" are understood. This can also be expressed with an active form. AT: "their wives will be raped" or "their enemies will rape their wives" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-ellipsis]] and [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-activepassive]])