# Connecting Statement:

Yahweh continues speaking.

# the most admired of kingdoms

This can be stated in active form. AT: "the kingdom that people most admire" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-activepassive]])

# Then Babylon ... will be overthrown by God

This can be stated in active form. AT: "Then God will destroy Babylon, the most admired of kingdoms, the splendor of Chaldean pride, as he destroyed Sodom and Gomorrah" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-activepassive]])

# the splendor of Chaldean pride

The abstract nouns "splendor" and "pride" can be translated with adjectives. The word "splendor" refers to the beautiful appearance of Babylon. AT: "the beautiful city that the Chaldeans are so proud of" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-abstractnouns]])

# It will not be inhabited or lived in

The two verbs mean basically the same thing. This can be stated in active form. AT: "No one will live in it" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-doublet]] and [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-activepassive]])

# from generation to generation

The phrase "generation to generation" refers to all generations of people who will live in the future. AT: "for ever" or "ever again" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-idiom]])

# The Arab

This refers to Arab people in general, not one person. AT: "Arabs" or "Arab people" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-genericnoun]])

# translationWords

* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/names/babylon]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/kingdom]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/splendor]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/names/chaldeans]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/proud]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/god]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/names/sodom]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/names/gomorrah]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/generation]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/names/arabia]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/shepherd]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/flock]]