# General Information:

Moses speaks to the Israelites as if they were one man, so the words "you" and "your" here are singular. (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-you]])

# When all these things have come on you

Here "these things" refer to the blessings and curses described in chapters 28-29. The phrase "have come on you" is an idiom that means to happen. AT: "When all these things happen to you" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-idiom]])

# that I have set before you

This speaks of the blessings and curses that Moses told the people as if they were objects that he set in front of them. AT: "that I have just now told you about" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metaphor]])

# call them to mind

This is an idiom. AT: "remember them" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-idiom]])

# among all the other nations

"while you are living in the other nations"

# has driven you

"has forced you to go"

# obey his voice

Here "voice" is referring to what Yahweh says. AT: "obey what he says" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metonymy]])

# with all your heart and with all your soul

The idiom "with all ... heart" means "completely" and "with all ... soul" means "with all your being." These two phrases have similar meaning. See how you translated these words in [Deuteronomy 4:29](../04/29.md). AT: "with all your being" or "with all your energy" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-idiom]] and [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-doublet]])

# reverse your captivity

"free you from your captivity." The abstract noun "captivity" can be translated as a verbal clause. AT: "free you from those who had captured you" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-abstractnouns]])

# translationWords

* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/bless]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/curse]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/mind]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/nation]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/yahweh]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/god]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/obey]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/voice]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/command]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/children]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/heart]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/soul]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/captive]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/compassion]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/peoplegroup]]