# The Sea

This refers to the tank or basin that held water for sacrifices.

# was set upon twelve oxen

"was on top of twelve oxen"

# twelve oxen

These are images of oxen made of bronze. AT: "twelve large figures of bulls" or "twelve bronze oxen" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-explicit]])

# "The Sea" was set on top of them

This can be stated in active form. AT: "Solomon's workers set 'The Sea' on top of the oxen" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-activepassive]])

# hindquarters

This is the back quarter of the body of an animal with four feet.

# thick as the width of a hand

This is about 8 centimeters. (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/translate-bdistance]])

# its brim was forged like the brim of a cup, like a lily blossom

This can be stated in active form. AT: "Solomon's workers forged the brim to look like the brim of a cup, to curve outward like a lily" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-activepassive]])

# three thousand baths

"3,000 baths." A bath is a unit of volume equal to about 22 liters. AT: "66 kiloliters" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/translate-numbers]] and [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/translate-bvolume]])

# He made ... he put

Here "he" refers to Solomon. The readers should understand that Solomon probably commanded other people to do the actual work. AT: "Solomon's workers made ... they put" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metonymy]])

# items used in performing the burnt offering were to be washed in them

This can be stated in active form. AT: "people were to wash the items used in performing the burnt offering in them" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-activepassive]])

# translationWords

* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible//ox]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/burntoffering]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/priest]]