# brothers

This means fellow Christians, including both men and women.

# in person not in heart

Here "heart" represents thoughts and emotions. Though Paul and those traveling with him were not present physically in Thessalonica, they continued to care and think about the believers there. AT: "in person, but we continued to think about you" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metonymy]])

# to see your face

Here "your face" means the entire person. AT: "to see you" or "to be with you"(See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-synecdoche]])

# I, Paul, wished to come to you once and again

"I, Paul, tried to come to you more than once"

# For what is our hope, or joy, or crown of pride in front of our Lord Jesus at his coming? Is it not you just as much as others?

Paul uses questions to emphasize the reasons he wants to come see the Thessalonian believers. AT: "For you, as much as the other believers, are our confidence for the future, and joy, and crown of pride in front of our Lord Jesus at his coming." (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-rquestion]])

# our hope ... Is it not you

By "hope" Paul means the assurance he has that God will reward him for his work. The Thessalonian Christians are the reason for his hope. (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metonymy]])

# or joy

The Thessalonians are the reason for his joy. (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metonymy]])

# crown of pride

Here "crown" refers to a laurel wreath awarded to victorious athletes. The expression "crown of pride" means a reward for victory, or having done well. (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metonymy]])

# translationWords

* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/brother]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/heart]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/face]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/names/paul]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/satan]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/hope]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/joy]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/crown]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/lord]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/jesus]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/glory]]