# General Information:

The angel continues speaking to Daniel.

# The king of the North will come

Here "king of the North" includes his army also. AT: "The army of the king of the North will come" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-synecdoche]])

# pour out earth for siege mounds

This refers to the piling up of earth in order for soldiers to reach the height of city walls in order to attack them. Soldiers and slaves would put loose earth in baskets, carry them to the right place, and pour it out in order to raise the mounds.

# fortifications

walls and other things built to defend a city or fort from enemy soldiers

# will not be able to stand

Here standing represents the ability to fight. AT: "will not be able to keep fighting against them" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metonymy]])

# the one who comes will act according to his desires against him

"the invading king will do whatever he wants against the other king"

# He will stand in

Here standing represents ruling. AT: "The king will begin to rule" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metonymy]])

# the land of beauty

This refers to the land of Israel. See how you translated this in [Daniel 08:09](../08/09.md).

# destruction will be in his hand

Here "destruction" represents the power to destroy. Also, the power to destroy is spoken of as if it were something that someone could hold in his hand. AT: "he will have power to destroy anything" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metaphor]])

# translationWords

* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/king]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/hand]]