# General Information:

The angel continues speaking to Daniel.

# someone will rise up in his place

Rising up in a king's place represents becoming king in place of the previous king. AT: "another man will become king of the North instead of that king" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metaphor]])

# will make a tax collector pass through

The tax collector will go through the land forcing people to pay taxes. AT: "will send someone to make the people pay taxes" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-explicit]])

# he will be broken

Here "he" refers to the new king. Being broken represents dying. AT: "the new king will die" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metaphor]])

# but not in anger

Possible meanings are 1) no one was angry at the king, or 2) that the occasion and cause of the king's death were kept secret. (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metaphor]])

# a despised person to whom the people will not have given the honor of royal power

The people will refuse to acknowledge him as king because he is not a descendant of kings. AT: "a person whom the people will despise and will not honor as king" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-activepassive]])

# An army will be swept away like a flood from before him

Being swept away represents being destroyed. This can be stated in active form. AT: "His army will completely destroy a great army as a flood destroys everything in its path" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-activepassive]] and [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-simile]]).

# Both that army and the leader of the covenant will be destroyed

This can be stated in active form. AT: "He will destroy that army and the leader of the covenant" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-activepassive]])

# the leader of the covenant

"the leader of the priests." This phrase refers to the person who filled the most important religious position that God required in his covenant, that of the high priest.

# translationWords

* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/tax]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/splendor]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/kingdom]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/honor]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/flood]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/covenant]]