# General Information:

The angel continues speaking to Daniel.

# He will wake up his power and his heart

Power and heart (that is, courage) are spoken of as if they were people whom someone could wake up in order to make them act. AT: "He will make himself powerful and will become courageous" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-personification]])

# heart

Here this represents courage. (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metaphor]])

# with a great army

"with a great army that he will assemble"

# will wage war

"will fight against him"

# he will not stand

Not standing represents being defeated. AT: "the king of the South will be defeated" or "his army will be defeated" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metaphor]])

# those who eat his fine food

This refers to the king's advisers. It was usual for a king's most trusted advisers to eat meals with him. AT: "the king's best advisers" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metonymy]])

# His army will be swept away like a flood

Here the severe defeat of an army is spoken of as a flood of water that completely sweeps it away. AT: "The enemy will completely defeat his army" or "His enemy will completely destroy his army as a flood destroys everything in its path" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metaphor]])

# many of them will fall killed

Here "fall" is an idiom that refers to dying in battle, so "fall" and "killed" mean basically the same thing. AT: "many of his soldiers will die in battle" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-idiom]] and [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-doublet]])

# with their hearts set on evil against each other

Here "heart" represents a person's desires. Desires are spoken of here as if they were an object that someone could set or place in a certain position. AT: "each determined to do evil to the other" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metaphor]])

# will sit at the same table

Sitting at the same table represents the act of talking to each other. (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metonymy]])

# but it will be of no use

"but their talking will not help them"

# For the end will come at the time that has been fixed

This tells why their meetings will not be successful. AT: "The result of their actions will only come at the time that God has fixed" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-activepassive]])