# they will stumble by the sword and by flame

Here "stumble" is a metaphor that represents experiencing a disaster of one kind or another, including death itself. Here "sword" represents battles and warfare, and "flame" represents fire. AT: "they will die in battle and by burning to death" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metaphor]] and [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metonymy]])

# they

This refers to the wise persons among the Israelites.

# they will stumble into captivity and into being robbed for days

Here "stumble" is a metaphor that represents experiencing a disaster of one kind or another, including death itself. The phrase "being robbed" can be stated in active form. AT: "they will become slaves and their enemies will rob them of their possessions for days" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metaphor]] and [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-activepassive]])

# they will be helped with a little help

This may be put into active form. AT: "others will give them a little help" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-activepassive]])

# In hypocrisy many will join themselves with them

This refers to other people who will pretend to help the wise persons, but not because they truly wish to help them.

# will join themselves

Here "join themselves" represents "come to help." AT: "will come to help them" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metaphor]])

# Some of the wise will stumble ... until the time of the end

This suffering will continue until the time when God has decided that it will end.

# Some of the wise will stumble

Here "stumble" represents experiencing a disaster of one kind or another, including death itself. (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metaphor]])

# so that refining will happen to them

Here "so that" means "with the result that." AT: "with the result that refining will happen to them"

# refining will happen to them, and cleansing, and purifying

These three activities are expressed here as if they were things. However, they may be expressed as actions, either in passive form or in active form. AT: "they will be refined, cleansed, and purified" or "their suffering will refine, cleanse, and purify them" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-abstractnouns]] and [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-activepassive]])

# refining

This refers to the purifying of metal by melting it in a fire. When God makes his people more faithful to himself, this is spoken of as if they were metal that a worker was making more pure by putting it into fire. (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metaphor]])

# cleansing

This refers to making people, places, or objects suitable for God's use by separating them from sin and other forms of evil. It speaks of evil as if it were physical dirtiness that could be removed by washing. (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metaphor]])

# purifying

This idea is very similar to refining, discussed earlier. Metal that is refined can also be said to be purified. (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metaphor]])

# time of the end

"the final days" or "the end of the world." See how you translated this in [Daniel 8:17](../08/15.md).

# the appointed time is still to come

Here "appointed time" implies that God has set the time. This can be put into active form. AT: "Yahweh has set the time in the future"

# translationWords

* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/wise]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/sword]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/possess]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/stumble]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/clean]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/purify]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/appoint]]