# Some of the wise will stumble ... until the time of the end

This suffering will continue until the time when God has decided that it will end.

# Some of the wise will stumble

Here "stumble" represents experiencing a disaster of one kind or another, including death itself. (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metaphor]])

# so that refining will happen to them

Here "so that" means "with the result that." Alternate translation: "with the result that refining will happen to them"

# refining will happen to them, and cleansing, and purifying

These three activities are expressed here as if they were things. However, they may be expressed as actions, either in passive form or in active form. Alternate translation: "they will be refined, cleansed, and purified" or "their suffering will refine, cleanse, and purify them" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-abstractnouns]] and [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-activepassive]])

# refining

This refers to the purifying of metal by melting it in a fire. When God makes his people more faithful to himself, this is spoken of as if they were metal that a worker was making more pure by putting it into fire. (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metaphor]])

# cleansing

This refers to making people, places, or objects suitable for God's use by separating them from sin and other forms of evil. It speaks of evil as if it were physical dirtiness that could be removed by washing. (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metaphor]])

# purifying

This idea is very similar to refining, discussed earlier. Metal that is refined can also be said to be purified. (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metaphor]])

# time of the end

"the final days" or "the end of the world." See how you translated this in [Daniel 8:17](../08/17.md).

# the appointed time is still to come

Here "appointed time" implies that God has set the time. This can be put into active form. Alternate translation: "Yahweh has set the time in the future"

