# If I have found favor in your eyes, king

"Find favor" is an idiom that means to be approved of or that he is pleased with her. "In your eyes" is a metaphor representing his evaluation. AT: "If you evaluate me and approve" or "If you are pleased with me" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-idiom]] and [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metaphor]])

# let my life be given to me

The metaphor "giving life" represents rescuing a person from being killed. This statement can be expressed in active form. AT: "save my life" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metaphor]] and [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-activepassive]])

# this is my petition

The abstract noun "petition" can be expressed with the verb "ask for." AT: "this is what I ask for" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-abstractnouns]])

# For we have been sold

The metaphor "being sold" represents being betrayed. This can be stated in active form. AT: "For someone has betrayed us" or "For someone has put us in danger of our enemies" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metaphor]] and [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-activepassive]])

# to be destroyed, killed, and annihilated

Here all three words have the same meaning and are used for emphasis. This can be stated in active form. AT: "for our enemies to destroy, kill, and annihilate us" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-doublet]] and [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-activepassive]])

# Where is this person to be found who has filled his heart to do such a thing

To fill one's heart to do something is an idiom meaning to dare to do something. This can be stated in active form. AT: "Where is the one who has dared to so such a thing" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-idiom]] and [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-activepassive]])

# translationWords

* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/favor]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/life]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/peoplegroup]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/servant]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/justify]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/ahasuerus]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/esther]]