# General Information:

Possible interpretations: 1) The woman contrasts the way she wants to give herself to the man, who will give her his love, to the way Solomon leases out his vineyard to those who will give him money. 2) The man contrasts the woman, whom he will not give to another man, to Solomon's vineyard, which he gave to other men.

# Baal Hamon

This is the name of a town in the northern part of Israel. (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/translate-names]]).

# gave the vineyard

leased, agreed to let other people pay him so they could grow grapes in the vineyard

# to those who would maintain it

"to people who would take care of it"

# Each one was to bring a thousand shekels of silver for its fruit

It may be helpful to state that this payment was for the fruit of the vineyard. AT: "Each man was supposed to give Solomon a thousand shekels as payment for the fruit of the vineyard" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-ellipsis]])

# to bring a thousand shekels of silver

"to bring 1,000 shekels of silver." (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/translate-bmoney]] and [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/translate-numbers]])

# My vineyard, my very own

The woman refers to herself as a vineyard, as in [Song of Solomon 1:6](../01/05.md). Here she emphasizes that she and no one else will decide what she dies with the "vineyard." (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metaphor]])

# is before me

This is an idiom that means the a person has the right to do what they want with something. AT: "is at my disposal" or "is mine to do with as I desire" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-idiom]])

# the thousand shekels are for you, Solomon

The woman knows that Solomon has leased out the vineyard so he can get money, but she does not want money.

# shekels

"coins"

# Solomon

Some versions understand the woman to be speaking directly to Solomon. Others understand her to be speaking in an apostrophe to her friends, to the man, or to herself. (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-apostrophe]])

# the two hundred shekels

The speaker has not mentioned these before, but the hearer would understand that she is speaking of the money that those who worked the vineyard would have left for their own after they paid Solomon.

# translationWords

* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/solomon]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/vineyard]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/silver]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/fruit]]