# In such cases, the brother or sister is not bound to their vows

Here "brother" and "sister" refers to a Christian husband or wife. Here "not bound to their vows" is a metaphor that mean the person is not obligated to do what they vowed to do. This can be stated in active form. AT: "In such cases, God does not require the believing spouse to continue to obey the marriage vow" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metaphor]] and [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-activepassive]]) 

# do you know, woman ... you will save your husband ... do you know, man ... you will save your wife

Paul is speaking to the Corinthians as if they were one person, so all instances of "you" and "your" here are singular. (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-you]])

# how do you know, woman, whether you will save your husband?

Paul uses a question to cause women to think deeply about what he is saying. AT: "you cannot know if you will save your unbelieving husband." (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-rquestion]])

# how do you know, man, whether you will save your wife?

Paul uses a question to cause men to think deeply about what he is saying. AT: "you cannot know if you will save your unbelieving wife." (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-rquestion]])

# translationWords

* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/brother]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/sister]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/vow]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/god]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/call]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/peace]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/know]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/save]]