# Connecting Statement:

In Dalmanutha, Jesus refuses to give the Pharisees a sign before he and his disciples get in a boat and leave.

# They sought from him

"They asked him for"

# a sign from heaven

They wanted a sign that would prove that Jesus' power and authority were from God. Possible meanings are 1) The word "heaven" is a metonym for God. AT: "a sign from God" or 2) the word "heaven" refers to the sky. AT: "a sign from the sky"  (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metonymy]])

# to test him

The Pharisees tried to test Jesus to make him prove that he was from God. Some information can be made explicit. AT: "to prove that God had sent him" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-explicit]])

# he sighed deeply in his spirit

This means that he groaned or that he let out a long deep breath that could be heard. It probably shows Jesus' deep sadness that the Pharisees refused to believe him.  See how you translated this in [Mark 7:34](../07/33.md).

# in his spirit

"in himself"

# Why does this generation seek for a sign?

Jesus is scolding them. This question may be written as a statement. AT: "This generation should not seek a sign." (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-rquestion]])

# this generation

When Jesus speaks of "this generation," he is referring to the people who lived at that time. There Pharisees are included in this group. AT: "you and the people of this generation" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-explicit]])

# no sign will be given

This can be stated in active form. AT: "I will not give a sign" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-activepassive]])

# he left them, got into a boat again

Jesus' disciples went with him. Some information can be made explicit. AT: "he left them, got into a boat again with his disciples" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-explicit]])

# to the other side

This describes the Sea of Galilee, which can be stated clearly. AT: "to the other side of the sea" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-explicit]])

# translationWords

* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/pharisee]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/miracle]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/heaven]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/test]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/spirit]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/generation]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/amen]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/seaofgalilee]]