# It is because we have no bread

In this statement, it may be helpful to state that "it" refers to what Jesus had said. AT: "He must have said that because we have no bread" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-explicit]])

# no bread

The word "no" is an exaggeration. The disciples did have one loaf of bread ([Mark 8:14](./14.md)), but that was not much different from having no bread at all. AT: "very little bread" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-hyperbole]])

# Why are you reasoning about not having bread?

Here Jesus is mildly rebuking his disciples because they should have understood what he had been talking about. This can be written as a statement. AT: "You should not be thinking that I am talking about actual bread." (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-rquestion]])

# Do you not yet perceive? Do you not understand?

These questions have the same meaning and are used together to emphasize that they do not understand. This can be written as one question or as a statement. AT: "Do you not yet understand?" or "You should perceive and understand by now the things I say and do." (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-parallelism]] and [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-rquestion]])

# Have your hearts become so dull?

"Hearts" here is a metonym for "thoughts and intentions." AT: "Your thinking has become so dull!" and [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-rquestion]]) (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metonymy]]).

# translationWords

* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/disciple]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/bread]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/jesus]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/understand]]