# Connecting Statement:

After rebuking Peter for his not wanting Jesus to die and rise, Jesus tells both his disciples and the crowd how to follow him.

# Get behind me, Satan! You are not setting

Jesus means that Peter is acting like Satan because Peter is trying to prevent Jesus from accomplishing what God sent him to do. AT: "Get behind me Satan! I call you Satan because you are not setting" or "Get behind me, because you are acting like Satan! You are not setting" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metaphor]])

# Get behind me

"Get away from me"

# follow me

Following Jesus here represents being one of his disciples. AT: "be my disciple" or "be one of my disciples" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metaphor]])

# must deny himself

"must not give in to his own desires" or "must forsake his own desires"

# take up his cross, and follow me

"carry his cross and follow me." The cross represents suffering and death. Taking up the cross represents being willing to suffer and die. AT: "must obey me even to the point of suffering and dying" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metonymy]] and [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metaphor]])

# follow me

Following Jesus here represents obeying him. AT: "obey me" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metaphor]])

# translationWords

* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/jesus]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/disciple]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/rebuke]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/peter]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/satan]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/god]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/call]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/cross]]