# Connecting Statement:

Yahweh continues to challenge Job.

# General Information:

Here Yahweh uses four questions to emphasize that Job is not like Yahweh because Job cannot control the wild ox. (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-rquestion]])

# Will the wild ox be happy to serve you?

This question can be translated as a statement. AT: "The wild ox will not be happy to serve you." (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-rquestion]])

# the wild ox

Possible meanings are 1) a type of ox that used to live in the wild or 2) some kind of buffalo that looked like oxen.

# be happy

"be willing"

# Will he consent to stay by your manger?

This question can be translated as a statement. AT: "He will not consent to stay by your manger." (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-rquestion]])

# consent to stay by your manger

"stay by your manger through the night"

# manger

something that holds food so that animals can eat it

# Can you use ropes to hold the wild ox in the furrows?

This question can be translated as a statement. AT: "You cannot control the wild ox with a rope in order to plow furrows in your fields." (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-rquestion]])

# ropes

Farmers would tie ropes to animals' heads or necks in order to lead them.

# furrows

These are long channels made in the dirt while plowing. See how you translated this in [Job 31:38](../31/38.md).

# Will he harrow the valleys as he follows after you?

This question can be translated as a statement. AT: "He will never harrow the valleys as he follows after you." (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-rquestion]])

# harrow

to smooth and break up the soil

# translationWords

* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible//ox]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/serve]]