# Connecting Statement:

Yahweh continues to challenge Job.

# General Information:

Yahweh uses three questions to emphasize that Job is not like Yahweh because Job cannot control the wild horse. (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-rquestion]])

# Have you given the horse his strength?

This question can be translated as a statement. AT: "You have never given the horse his strength." (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-rquestion]])

# Did you clothe his neck with his flowing mane?

This question can be translated as a statement. AT: "You cannot clothe his neck with his flowing mane." (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-rquestion]])

# clothe his neck with his flowing mane

The horse's "mane" is spoken of as if it was clothing for the neck of the horse. AT: "made his flowing main to cover his neck like clothes" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metonymy]])

# flowing mane

the long hair on the top of the neck of a horse

# Have you ever made him jump like a locust?

This question can be translated as a statement. AT: "You are not able to make him jump like a locust." (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-rquestion]])

# a locust

a large kind of grasshopper that can jump very far and very quickly

# snorting

a very loud sound that horses make with their nose

# translationWords

* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/horse]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/clothed]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/locust]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/majesty]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/fear]]