# sell your people for nothing

The writer speaks of Yahweh allowing Israel's enemies to conquer them as if he were selling the people of Israel to their enemies but does not require any payment from their enemies. (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metaphor]])

# You make us a rebuke to our neighbors, scoffed and mocked by those around us

These two phrases are parallel emphasizing how the people among whom they live mock them. (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-parallelism]])

# You make us a rebuke to our neighbors

The word "rebuke" can be translated as a verb. AT: "You make us something that our neighbors rebuke" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-abstractnouns]])

# scoffed and mocked by those around us

This can be stated in active form. AT: "those around us scoff at us and mock us" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-activepassive]])

# an insult among ... a shaking of the head

These phrases are parallel emphasizing how intensely the nations around them mock them. (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-parallelism]])

# You make us an insult among the nations

The word "insult" can be translated as a verb. AT: "You make the nations around us insult us" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-abstractnouns]])

# a shaking of the head among the peoples

The phrase "a shaking of the head" can be translated in verbal form. AT: "something at which the peoples shake their heads" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-abstractnouns]])

# a shaking of the head

This was a gesture that people used to show scorn to others.