# Awake, why do you sleep, Lord?

This does not mean that God is actually asleep. The writer speaks of God's seeming inactivity as if God is sleeping. He asks the question to rebuke God for appearing not to be concerned about their troubles. AT: "Wake up! I feel like you are sleeping, Lord!" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-rquestion]] and [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metaphor]])

# do not throw us off

The writer speaks of God's rejection of Israel as if he were discarding an unwanted piece of clothing. See how you translated a similar phrase in [Psalms 44:9](./009.md). AT: "do not reject us" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metaphor]])

# Why do you hide your face ... our oppression?

The writer uses this question to complain that God appears to be ignoring them. AT: "Do not hide your face ... our oppression." (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-rquestion]])

# hide your face

The writer speaks of God ignoring them as if God were hiding his face so that he could not see them. AT: "ignore us" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metaphor]])

# forget our affliction and our oppression

The words "affliction" and "oppression" mean basically the same thing and emphasize the severity of their affliction. These words may also be translated as verbs. AT: "forget that people afflict us and oppress us" or "forget that people greatly afflict us" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-abstractnouns]] and [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-doublet]])

# translationWords

* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/sleep]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/lord]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/face]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/afflict]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/oppress]]