# General Information:

Moses speaks to the Israelites as if they were one man, so the words "you" and "your" here are singular. (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-you]])

# He will bring on you again all the diseases of Egypt

This is an idiom. AT: "He will make sure that you again suffer from the diseases of Egypt" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-idiom]])

# they will cling to you

This is an idiom. AT: "the diseases will not stop, and no one will be able to heal you of them" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-idiom]])

# every sickness and plague that is not written

Here "every" is a generalization that means "many." This can be stated in active form. AT: "even other sicknesses and plagues that I have not written" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-hyperbole]] and [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-activepassive]])

# until you are destroyed

This can be stated in active form. AT: "until he has destroyed you" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-activepassive]])

# You will be left ... you were like ... you did not listen

Moses is speaking to the Israelites as a group, so all instances of "you" are plural. (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-you]])

# you were like the stars of the heavens in number

This means that in the past there were many Israelites. (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-simile]])

# to the voice of Yahweh

Here the metonym "voice of Yahweh" refers to what Yahweh says. AT: "to what Yahweh says" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metonymy]])

# translationWords

* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/names/egypt]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/plague]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/lawofmoses]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/heaven]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/voice]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/god]]