# General Information:

The ideas of "clean" and "purify" represent being acceptable to God. (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metaphor]])

# General Information:

The ideas of "unclean," "defile," "impurity," and "uncleanness" represent not being acceptable to God. (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metaphor]])

# the dead body of any man

"the dead body of any person"

# purify himself

The person would ask someone who is clean to purify him by sprinkling on him some water mixed with the cows ashes. Asking someone to purify him is spoken of as if he were to purify himself. AT: "ask someone to purify him" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metonymy]])

# if he does not purify himself the third day, then he will not be clean on the seventh day

This can be stated in a positive form. AT: "he will be clean on the seventh day only if he purifies himself the third day" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-doublenegatives]])

# That person must be cut off

Here the phrase "be cut off" means to be disowned and sent away. See how you translated this in [Numbers 9:13](../09/13.md). AT: "That person must be sent away" or "you must send that person away" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metaphor]] and [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-activepassive]])

# the water for impurity was not sprinkled on him

This can be stated in active form. AT: "no one sprinkled the water for impurity on him" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-activepassive]])

# the water for impurity

"the water that is sprinkled on impure things to make them pure" or "the water for making things pure"

# He will remain unclean; his uncleanness will remain on him

These two phrases mean basically the same thing and are combined for emphasis. (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-parallelism]])