# General Information:

The author continues to describe people who believe their wealth will save them.

# Like sheep

The writer compares people who will all die to a flock of sheep. Just as sheep cannot escape when the butcher decides to slaughter them, so men will not escape when it is their time to die. (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-simile]])

# they are appointed

This can be stated in active form. AT: "God has appointed them" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-activepassive]])

# death will be their shepherd

The writer speaks of men dying by personifying death as a shepherd who leads them into the grave. AT: "death will take them away as a shepherd leads away sheep to be slaughtered" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-personification]] and [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metaphor]])

# in the morning

Here the word "morning" is a metaphor that refers to a time when God will vindicate righteous people and save them from evil people. (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metaphor]])

# their bodies will be consumed in Sheol

The writer speaks of Sheol, the place of the dead, as if it were a person or animal. He speaks of the decay of dead bodies as if Sheol were eating them. AT: "their bodies will decompose in the grave" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-personification]] and [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metaphor]])

# God will redeem my life from the power of Sheol

The writer speaks of Sheol as if it were a person who has power over those who die. From the context, it is implied that this power refers to consuming the bodies of the dead. (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-personification]])

# God will redeem my life

Here the word "life" refers to the whole person. AT: "God will redeem me" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-synecdoche]])