# you have been a place of safety ... a shelter ... a shelter from the storm ... a shade from the heat

Yahweh protecting his people is spoken of as if he were a place that the people could go to be safe and comforted. (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metaphor]])

# When the breath of the ruthless was like a storm against a wall

Ruthless people oppressing the people of God is spoken of as if they were a storm beating against a wall. (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-simile]])

# When the breath

"When the wind" or "When the blast"

# the ruthless

This is a nominal adjective. AT: "ruthless people" or "those who are ruthless" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-nominaladj]])

# like heat in a dry land

This compares the enemies of God's people to the heat that dries up the land. This emphasizes how much the enemies cause the people of God to suffer. (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-simile]])

# as the heat is subdued ... ruthless ones is answered

Yahweh stopping ruthless people from singing and boasting is compared to a cloud providing shade on a hot day. This emphasizes that Yahweh comforts his people by stopping those who cause them to suffer. (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-simile]])

# as the heat is subdued by the shade of a cloud

This can be stated in active form. AT: "just like when a cloud passes overhead and subdues the heat" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-activepassive]])

# the song of the ruthless ones is answered

This can be stated in active form. AT: "you will stop the ruthless people from singing" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-activepassive]])

# translationWords

* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/refuge]]