# Call this day to mind

The words "Call ... to mind" were a customary way of telling someone to remember something. AT: "Remember and celebrate this day" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-idiom]] and [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-explicit]])

# the house of slavery

Moses speaks of Egypt as if it were a house where people keep slaves. AT: "the place where you were slaves" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metaphor]])

# Yahweh's strong hand

Here the word "hand" refers to power. See how you translated "strong hand" in [Exodus 6:1](../06/01.md). (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metonymy]])

# No bread with yeast may be eaten

This can be stated in active form. AT: "You must not eat bread with yeast" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-activepassive]])

# the month of Aviv

This is the name of the first month of the Hebrew calendar. Aviv is during the last part of March and the first part of April on Western calendars. (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/translate-hebrewmonths]] and [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/translate-names]])

# a land flowing with milk and honey

Since milk comes from cows and goats, "milk" represents food produced by livestock. Because honey is produced from flowers, "honey" represents food from crops. See how you translated this in [Exodus 3:8](../03/07.md). AT: "food from livestock and from crops" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metonymy]])

# you must observe this act of worship

When the Israelites live in Canaan, they must celebrate the Passover on this day each year. See how you translated this phrase in [Exodus 12:25](../12/24.md).