# General Information:

In 1:20-1:33 Wisdom is spoken of as if it were a woman speaking to the people. (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-personification]])

# Wisdom cries aloud

If your language does not allow you to treat wisdom as a woman shouting to the people in the city, you might try something like "Grandmother Wisdom cries aloud" or "Honored Miss Wisdom cries aloud" or "Wisdom is like a woman who cries aloud" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-personification]])

# raises her voice

This is an idiom. AT: "speaks with a loud voice" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-idiom]])

# in the open places

This means places where there would be a lot of people. AT: "in the markets" or "in the town squares" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-explicit]])

# at the head of the noisy streets

Possible meanings are 1) "head" refers to the place where busy streets intersect or 2) "head" refers to the top of a wall where people on noisy streets could see and hear wisdom speaking.

# How long, you naive people, will you love being naive?

Wisdom uses this question to rebuke those who are not wise. AT: "You who are naive must stop loving being naive." (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-rquestion]])

# naive

"inexperienced, immature"

# How long, you mockers, will you delight in mockery, and how long, you fools, will you hate knowledge?

Wisdom uses this question to rebuke the mockers and the fools. AT: "You who mock must stop delighting in mockery, and you fools must stop hating knowledge." (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-rquestion]])

# translationWords

* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/wise]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/voice]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/gate]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/love]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/mock]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/foolish]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/know]]