# I could collect and join words together

Job speaks of thinking of useless things to say as if his words were random items that he collected and joined together. AT: "I could think of things to say" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metaphor]])

# shake my head

This is an action that shows disapproval. (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/translate-symaction]])

# in mockery

The word "mockery" can be expressed as a verb. AT: "to mock you" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-abstractnouns]])

# Oh, how I would encourage you with my mouth! How the comfort from my lips would lighten your grief

Here Job is speaking sarcastically and means the opposite of what he says. AT: "My words would surely not be encouraging to you! They would surely not lighten your grief" or "By speaking to you as you spoke to me earlier, I would not encourage you or lighten your grief!" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-irony]])

# with my mouth

Here Job's "mouth" represents what he says. AT: "with what I say" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metonymy]])

# the comfort from my lips

This refers to comforting words that he speaks. AT: "my comforting words" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metonymy]])

# would lighten your grief

This speaks of grief as if it were a heavy physical burden. AT: "would lessen your grief" or "would help you feel less grief" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metaphor]])

# translationWords

* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/word]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/mock]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/comfort]]