# grief

Job has experienced great loss of family and health that is unexplained and therefore causes him "great sorrow and emotional pain".

# how am I helped?

Job uses this rhetorical question to express that keeping quiet does not lessen his grief. This question can be written as a statement. AT: "it does not help me at all." (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-rquestion]])

# But now, God, you

Job now turns his complaining to God.

# made all my family desolate

"destroyed all my family"

# You have made me dry up

This means that Job's body has shriveled and become wrinkled. AT: "You have made my body shrivel up" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-explicit]])

# which itself is a witness against me

Job describes the shriveling of his body as if it were an accuser against him. AT: "and people think that shows me to be a sinner" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-personification]])

# the leanness of my body rises up against me, and it testifies against

Job describes the thinness of his body as if it were accuser against him. AT: "They see how thin my body is, and they think that proves that I am guilty" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-personification]])

# against my face

Here Job is referred to by his "face." AT: "against me" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-synecdoche]])

# translationWords

* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/god]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/desolate]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/witness]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/body]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/testimony]]