# General Information:

Yahweh continues to speak through Ezekiel to the people of Jerusalem.

# by the blood that you have poured out

This speaks of murdering people as pouring out blood. AT: "because you murdered innocent people" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metaphor]])

# unclean

A person who God considers spiritually unacceptable or defiled is spoken of as if the person were physically unclean. (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metaphor]])

# You have drawn your days close, and the end of your years has come.

The images of days being brought close and years coming to an end are both idioms representing ending by death or by destruction. By saying that Jerusalem has brough here days close, Yahweh implies that Jerusalem would soon be destroyed because of the people's sin. AT: "Because of these things you have done, you are approaching the end of your time" or "You are bringing your existence to an end" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-parallelism]] and [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-idiom]])

# have drawn your days close

"have pulled your days close" or "have brought your days near to you"

# I will make you a reproach to the nations and a laughingstock to all the lands

This can be reworded so that the nouns "reproach" and "laughingstock" are expressed as verbs. AT: "I will make the nations reproach you and all the lands ridicule you" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-abstractnouns]])

# a reproach

someone whom people disapprove of or rebuke

# a laughingstock

a person whom people ridicule or mock

# to all the lands

This generalization refers to the places who are familiar with Jerusalem and represents the people who live in these places. AT: "of the people of every nearby land" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-hyperbole]])

# translationWords

* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/guilt]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/reproach]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/nation]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/mock]]