# General Information:

God continues to speak through Ezekiel about the terrible things that the people of Jerusalem have done. He speaks to the people of Jerusalem as if they were the city itself, and of the city of Jerusalem as if it were a woman. The word "you" is always feminine singular. (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-apostrophe]] and [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metonymy]] and [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metaphor]])

# Within you 

In all instances of this phrase, the writer refers to the people of Jerusalem as if they were the city itself, and of the city of Jerusalem as if it were a woman. AT: "within this city" or "among you people of Jerusalem" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-apostrophe]] and [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metonymy]] and [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metaphor]])

# men uncover the nakedness of their father

This means that a son sleeps with his father's wife. AT: "there are men who sleep with their father's wives" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-euphemism]])

# they have violated unclean women during their menstrual period... commit abominations with their neighbors' wives... make their own daughters-in-law shamefully unclean ... abuse their own sisters

These are all ways to express that the men have had slept with women they should not have and how sinful their actions are. AT: "They have raped unclean women during their menstrual period ... commit abominations by sleeping with their neighbors' wives... make their own daughters-in-law shamefully unclean by sleeping with them ... rape their own sisters" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-explicit]])

# unclean

A person whom God considers spiritually unacceptable or defiled is spoken of as if the person were physically unclean. Women were considered to be unclean during their menstrual period. (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metaphor]])

# to pour out blood

This speaks of murdering people as pouring out blood. AT: "to murder people" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metaphor]])

# interest

This word refers to the money paid by a person to use borrowed money. However, some modern versions interpret "interest" in this passage as "too much interest."

# you have damaged your neighbors through oppression

This means that they have oppressed their neighbors by charging them too much interest. AT: "you have oppressed your neighbors and made them poor" or "you have made your neighbors poor by charging too much interest" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-explicit]])

# you have forgotten me

Refusing to obey Yahweh is like forgetting that he exists. (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metaphor]])

# this is the Lord Yahweh's declaration

Yahweh speaks of himself by name to express the certainty of what he is declaring. See how you translated this in [Ezekiel 5:11](../05/11.md). AT: "this is what the Lord Yahweh has declared" or "this is what I, the Lord Yahweh, have declared" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-123person]])

# translationWords

* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/reveal]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/neighbor]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/shame]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/bribe]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/profit]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/neighbor]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/oppress]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/lordyahweh]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/declare]]