# General Information:

Yahweh continues to speak to the people of Jerusalem by speaking directly to the city of Jerusalem.

# With my hand I have struck

"I have shaken my fist against" or "I have clapped my hands against." This is a symbolic action that shows anger and disapproval. AT: "I have shown my anger and disapproval against" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/translate-symaction]])

# the bloodshed that is in your midst

"the murdering that happens among you"

# Will your heart stand, will your hands be strong on the days when I myself will deal with you?

Yahweh uses this rhetorical question to emphasize how hurt they will be when he punishes them. This question may be written as a statement. AT: "Your heart will not stand and your hands will not be strong on the days when I myself will deal with you." (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-rquestion]])

# Will your heart stand

Here the whole person is referred to by his "heart" to emphasize his emotions and will. Here the idea of "standing" is an idiom that means to be courageous. AT: "Will you stand" or "Will you be courageous" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-synecdoche]] and [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-idiom]])

# will your hands be strong

Here the whole person is referred to by his "hands." AT: "will you be strong" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-synecdoche]])

# So I will scatter you among the nations and disperse you through the lands

These two phrases mean basically the same thing. See how you translated a similar phrase in [Ezekiel 12:15](../12/14.md). AT: "So I will cause them to separate from each other and live in different nations"(See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-parallelism]])

# purge

remove something unwanted

# uncleanness

A person who God considers spiritually unacceptable or defiled is spoken of as if the person were physically unclean. (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metaphor]])

# So you will become unclean in the eyes of the nations

Here the "nations" refer to the people who live in those places. The "eyes" represent seeing, and seeing represents thoughts or judgment. AT: "So the nations will consider you unclean" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metaphor]])

# the nations

Here the "nations" refer to the people who live in those places. AT: "the people in other nations" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metonymy]])

# know that I am Yahweh

When Yahweh says that people will know that he is Yahweh, he is implying that they will know that he is the one true God who has supreme authority and power. See how you translated this in [Ezekiel 6:7](../06/06.md). AT: "understand that I am Yahweh, the one true God" or "realize that I, Yahweh, have supreme power and authority" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-explicit]])