# General Information:

God continues to describe his punishment of the people if Israel in Jerusalem as metals being melted and purified in a furnace. (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metaphor]])

# As a collection of silver and bronze ... must have fire blown against it, I will melt you

Here Yahweh speaks of how he will gather together the people of Jerusalem and punish them by comparing them to how sliver, bronze, iron, lead, and tin are put in a furnace and burned. (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metaphor]])

# So I will gather ... I will put you there ... so will I gather ... I will put you there and pour you out

These phrases have similar meanings and may be combined. Here Yahweh continues to speaks about how he is going to punish the people as if they were metal that he was melting and pouring out. AT: "So I will gather you in my wrath and my fury. I will put you together in Jerusalem and it will be as though I am blowing fire on you to melt you and then pouring you out" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-parallelism]] and [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metaphor]])

# blow against you with the fire of my wrath

Here Yahweh speaks of the greatness of his wrath as if it were a fire. AT: "my wrath will be like a fire that I will blow against you to melt you, and then I will pour you out there" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metaphor]])

# in her midst

"in Jerusalem." The word "her" refers to Jerusalem.

# As melting silver in the middle of a furnace, you will be melted down in its midst

Here Yahweh continues to speaks about how he is going to punish the people as if they were metal that he was melting and pouring out. AT: "It will be as though you were melted down like silver in the middle of Jerusalem" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metaphor]])

# have poured out my fury against you

This speaks of Yahweh punishing the people as if he were pouring out his fury against them. AT: "have punished you in my anger" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metaphor]])

# translationWords

* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/fire]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/wrath]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/angry]]