# General Information:

Yahweh tells Ezekiel to speak to Jerusalem.

# The word of Yahweh came

This is an idiom that is used to introduce something that God told his prophets or his people. See how you translated this in [Ezekiel 3:16](../03/16.md). AT: "Yahweh spoke this message" or "Yahweh spoke these words" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-idiom]])

# You are a land that has not been cleansed

This can be stated in active form. The word "land" here refers to Israel and to the people who live there. AT: "You are a land and a people that is unclean" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-activepassive]] and [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metonymy]])

# not been cleansed

A person who God considers spiritually unacceptable or defiled is spoken of as if the person were physically unclean. (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metaphor]])

# There is no rain on the day of wrath

Rain is used as an example of God's blessing. AT: "There is no blessing on the day of wrath" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-idiom]])

# There is a conspiracy of her prophets in her midst

The word "her" refers to Israel. AT: "The prophets within Israel plot conspiracies"

# conspiracy

a secret plan made by two or more people to do something harmful or illegal

# like a roaring lion tearing apart a victim. They consume life and take precious wealth

This compares the prophets of Israel to lions who attack and kill their victims. AT: "They kill people for they are like roaring lions who attack and kill their prey. They take peoples' precious wealth" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-simile]])

# they make many widows within her

The word "her" refers to Israel. They "make many widows" by killing married men. AT: "they make many women into widows by killing their husbands" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-explicit]])

# translationWords

* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/clean]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/prophet]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/lion]]