# her

This pronoun refers to Jerusalem.

# do violence to my law

"disobey my laws"

# the unclean and the clean

This refers to unclean and clean things. Something that God considers spiritually unacceptable or defiled is spoken of as if it were physically unclean. AT: "things that are unclean and things that are clean" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-nominaladj]] and [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metaphor]])

# They hide their eyes from my Sabbaths

This speaks of the people ignoring and not observing the Sabbath and if they were hiding their eyes from the Sabbath" AT: "They ignore my Sabbaths" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metaphor]])

# so that I am profaned in their midst

This can be stated in active form. AT: "and profane me among themselves" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-activepassive]])

# Her princes within her are like wolves tearing apart their victims

This compares Israel's princes to wolves who attack and kill their victims. (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-simile]])

# They pour out blood and destroy life

These two phrases mean basically the same thing and emphasize the violence that the princes practice. AT: "They murder people" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-parallelism]])

# Her prophets have painted them over with whitewash

This speaks of the prophets trying to hide these sins as if they were something that they could paint over with whitewash. AT: "It is like her prophets have painted over their sins with whitewash" or "Their prophets try to hide these evil things" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metaphor]])

# whitewash

This is a solution that is painted on things to make them white that is similar to white paint.

# predict falsehoods to them

"predict lies for the princes." The word "them" refers to the princes.