# General Information:

Yahweh compares the leaders of Jerusalem to a wall and himself to an invading army. (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metaphor]])

# a man from them who would build up a wall

This speaks of a man who would take responsibility to pray for the people and to lead them to repentance as if that man were to build a wall to protect the people from Yahweh. AT: "a man from among them who would act like he built a wall" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metaphor]])

# stand before me in its breach

Its "breach" refers to a gap in the wall. This speaks of the man defending the people before Yahweh as if he were a warrior standing in the breach to defend the city. (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metaphor]])

# for the land so I would not destroy it

Here the "land" represents the people who live there. AT: "for the people so that I would not destroy them" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metonymy]])

# pour out my indignation upon them

This speaks of Yahweh punishing the people as if his indignation were a liquid that he poured out on them. AT: "I will punish the people because of my indignation for them" or "I will punish the people because of my anger against them" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metaphor]])

# indignation

"wrath." This refers to strong displease or anger against something that is wicked.

# I will finish them with the fire of my indignation

This speaks of how harsh Yahweh's judgement is by comparing it to a fire. Here destroying the people is referred to as "finishing" them. AT: "I will destroy them with my wrath which is as intense as a blazing fire" or "I will destroy them with my wrath" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metaphor]] and [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-euphemism]])

# set their way on their own heads

Setting something on a person's head refers to making them carry a burden or take responsibility for it. AT: "make them take responsibility for what they have done" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-synecdoche]])