# the word of Yahweh came to me, saying,

This idiom is used to introduce a special message from God. See how you translated it in [Jeremiah 1:4](../01/04.md). AT: "Yahweh gave me a message. He said," or "Yahweh spoke this message to me:" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-idiom]])

# I will look on the exiles of Judah for their benefit

Here "look on" is an idiom that means Yahweh will take care of them. AT: "I will take good care of the exiles of Judah" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-idiom]])

# just like these good figs

The good figs represent those Judean exiles sent to the land of Chaldea. (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-simile]])

# I will set my eyes on them for good

Here "set my eyes" means he will see them. Seeing them is a metonym for caring for them. AT: "I will bless them" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metonymy]])

# I will build them up, and not tear them down. I will plant them, and not uproot them

These two metaphors have similar meanings. The second one strengthens the thought in the first. AT: "I will help them to prosper in Chaldea" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-parallelism]])

# I will build them up, and not tear them down

Yahweh speak of the exiles as a building which Yahweh will build and not tear down. AT: "I will help them flourish in the land, and not ruin them" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metaphor]])

# I will plant them, and not uproot them

Yahweh speak of the exiles as plants which Yahweh will plant in good soil and not pull out. AT: "I will establish them in the land, and not remove them" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metaphor]])

# I will give them a heart to know me

Here "a heart" refers to their desires. AT: "I will cause them to desire to know me" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metonymy]])

# they will turn to me with all their heart

Here "all their heart is an idiom that means "completely." AT: "they will turn to me completely" or "they will turn to me without reservation" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-idiom]])

# translationWords

* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/wordofgod]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/god]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/israel]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/exile]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/send]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/chaldeans]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/good]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/restore]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/heart]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/know]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/peopleofgod]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/turn]]