# It was to Ahab a trivial thing to walk in the sins of Jeroboam son of Nebat

This implies that Ahab wanted to commit worse sins. The full meaning of this statement can be made explicit. AT: "It was as if Ahab thought that walking in the sins of Jeroboam son of Nebat was not enough" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-explicit]])

# It was to Ahab a trivial thing

This is an idiom. The phrase "to Ahab" means that Ahab considered or thought something. AT: "Ahab considered it a trivial thing" or "Ahab thought that it was not enough" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-idiom]])

# a trivial thing

"an insignificant thing" or "not enough"

# to walk in the sins of Jeroboam son of Nebat

Walking in Jeroboam's sins represents sinning as Jeroboam had sinned. AT: "to sin as Jeroboam son of Nebat had sinned" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metaphor]])

# worshiped Baal and bowed down to him

These two phrases mean the same thing. The phrase "bowed down to him" describes the posture that people used in worship. (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-parallelism]])

# the God of Israel

Here the word "Israel" refers to the nation of Israel, which consisted of twelve tribes.

# the kings of Israel

Here the word "Israel" refers to the kingdom of Israel, which consisted of ten tribes.

# translationWords

* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/walk]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/sin]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/jeroboam]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/jezebel]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/sidon]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/worship]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/baal]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/bow]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/altar]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/house]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/asherim]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/yahweh]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/god]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/israel]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/kingdomofisrael]]