# General Information:

Moses continues speaking to the people of Israel.

# You are the people ... you are a nation ... has chosen you

All occurrences of "you" refer to the people of Israel. Moses was included as a part of the people. AT: "We are the people ... we are a nation ... has chosen us"

# Do not cut yourselves, nor shave any part of your face for the dead

These were ways the people groups living in Canaan showed that they were grieving over people who had died. Moses is telling the people of Israel not to act like them. The full meaning of this statement can be made explicit. (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/translate-symaction]] and [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-explicit]])

# nor shave any part of your face

"nor shave the front of your head"

# For you are a nation ... surface of the earth

See how you translated these words in [Deuteronomy 7:6](../07/06.md).

# you are a nation that is set apart to Yahweh your God

Yahweh choosing the people of Israel to belong to him in a special way is spoken of as if Yahweh set them apart from all other nations. This can be stated in active form. AT: "Yahweh your God has set you apart from other nations" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metaphor]] and [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-activepassive]])

# Yahweh has chosen you to be a people for his own possession

This means basically the same thing as the first part of the sentence. They both mean that the people of Israel belong to Yahweh in a special way. (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-parallelism]])

# a people for his own possession

"a people for his treasured possession" or "his people"

# more than all peoples that are on the surface of the earth

"out of all the people groups in the world"