# Jehoram walked in the ways of the kings of Israel

Here "walking" is an idiom that refers to how he lived and reigned as king. At this time in history, the recent kings of Israel had been evil kings. The full meaning of this statement can be made clear. AT: "Jehoram was an evil king, just as other kings of Israel who ruled before him had been" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-idiom]] and [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-explicit]])

# as the house of Ahab was doing

Here the "house" of Ahab refers to the members of Ahab's family and his recent descendants. Ahab is Jehoram father-in-law. AT: "the same as the rest of the family of Ahab was doing" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metonymy]])

# for he had Ahab's daughter as his wife

Jehoram had married king Ahab's daughter.

# what was evil in Yahweh's sight

The sight of Yahweh represents Yahweh's judgment or evaluation. AT: "what was evil in Yahweh's judgment" or "what Yahweh considers to be evil" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metaphor]])

# destroy Judah

Here "Judah" is a metonym for the people who live there. AT: "destroy the people of Judah" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metonymy]])

# since he had told him that he would always give him descendants

"since Yahweh had told David that he would always give David descendants." This refers to Yahweh's promise to David that his descendants would always rule Judah. The full meaning of this statement can be made explicit. AT: "since he had told David that his descendants would always rule Judah" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-explicit]])

# translationWords

* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/walk]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/house]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/david]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/descendant]]