# General Information:

King Jehoram of Judah dies and his son Ahaziah becomes king.

# So Edom has been in rebellion against the rule of Judah to this present day

"So after that, Edom was no longer controlled by Judah, and it is still like that"

# the rule of Judah

Here "Judah" refers to the king of Judah. AT: "the rule of the king of Judah" or "the authority of the king of Judah" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metonymy]])

# to this present day

to the time that this book was written

# Libnah also revolted at the same time

Libnah rebelled against the king of Judah just as Edom had. AT: "During that same time, Libnah also rebelled against the king of Judah" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-explicit]])

# Libnah

This is another city that was originally part of Judah. Here "Libnah" refers to the people who live there. AT: "the people of Libnah" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/translate-names]] and [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metonymy]])

# As for the other matters concerning Jehoram, all that he did

"To read more about the history of Jehoram and what he did,"

# are they not written ... Judah?

This question is used to either inform or remind the readers that the information about Jehoram is in this other book. AT: "these things are written ... Judah." or "someone has written about them ... Judah." (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-rquestion]] and [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-activepassive]])

# Jehoram died and rested with his fathers, and was buried with his fathers

Here "rested" is a polite way of referring to someone dying. After he died, his body was buried in the same place as the bodies of his forefathers. The phrase "was buried" can be stated in active form. AT: "Jehoram died, and they buried him with his forefathers" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-euphemism]] and [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-activepassive]])

# Then Ahaziah his son became king in his place

"Then Ahaziah, Jehoram's son, became king after he died"

# translationWords

* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/rebel]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/written]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/death]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/rest]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/father]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/bury]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/cityofdavid]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/ahaziah]]