# General Information:

Ahaziah becomes king of Judah.

# In the twelfth year of Joram son of Ahab, king of Israel

This describes the time that Ahaziah began to reign as king of Judah by stating how long Joram, the current king of Israel, had reigned. AT: "in the twelfth year that Joram son of Ahab was king of Israel" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-explicit]])

# twelfth year

"12th year" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/translate-ordinal]])

# twenty-two years

"22 years" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/translate-numbers]])

# Athaliah ... Omri

Athaliah is the name of a woman. Omri is the name of a man. (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/translate-names]])

# Ahaziah walked in the ways of

Here "walking" refers his behavior or the way in which he lived. AT: "Ahaziah lived the same way as the others in" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-idiom]])

# the house of Ahab

Here the "house" of Ahab refers to his family. AT: "the family of Ahab" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metonymy]])

# what was evil in the sight of Yahweh

The sight of Yahweh represents Yahweh's judgment or evaluation. AT: "what was evil in Yahweh's judgment" or "what Yahweh considers to be evil" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metaphor]])

# a son-in-law to the house of Ahab

This explains Ahaziah's family relationship to Ahab. Ahaziah's father was married to Ahab's daughter. The meaning of this can be made clear. AT: "the son of Ahab's son-in-law" or "a grandson of King Ahab" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-explicit]])

# translationWords

* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/names/joram]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/names/ahab]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/names/kingdomofisrael]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/names/kingdomofjudah]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/reign]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/walk]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/house]]