# Connecting Statement:

These verses should be seen as an explanation of the parable in [Luke 18:1-5](../18/01.md).

# General Information:

Jesus has finished telling his parable and is now commenting about it to his disciples.

# Listen to what the unjust judge says

"Think about what the unjust judge just said." Translate this in a way that people will understand that Jesus has already told what the judge said.

# Now

This word indicates that Jesus has ended the parable and has started explaining its meaning.

# will not God also bring ... night?

Jesus uses a question to teach the disciples. This can be a statement. AT: "God will also certainly ... night!" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-rquestion]])

# his chosen ones

"the people he has chosen"

# Will he delay long over them?

Jesus uses a question to teach the disciples. This can be a statement. AT: "He will certainly not delay long over them!" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-rquestion]])

# when the Son of Man comes, will he indeed find faith on the earth?

Jesus asks this question so that his hearers will stop thinking that God is slow to help those who call to him for justice and will understand that the real problem is that they do not truly have faith in God. AT: "when the Son of Man comes, you need to be sure that he will find that you truly have faith in him." or "when the Son of Man comes, he will find few on earth who believe." (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-rquestion]])

# the Son of Man comes, will he indeed find

Jesus is referring to himself. AT: "I, the Son of Man come, will I indeed find" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-123person]])

# translationWords

* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/unjust]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/judgeposition]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/god]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/justice]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/elect]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/sonofman]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/faith]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/earth]]