# Connecting Statement:

Jesus has finished telling his parable. In verse 14, he comments about what the parable teaches.

# standing at a distance

"stood away from the Pharisee." This was a sign of humility. He did not feel worthy to be near the Pharisee.

# lift up his eyes to heaven

To "lift up his eyes" means to look at something. AT: "look toward heaven" or "look upward" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-idiom]])

# hit his breast

This is a physical expression of great sorrow, and shows this man's repentance and humility. AT: "hit his breast to show his sorrow" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/translate-symaction]])

# God, be merciful to me, a sinner

"God, please have mercy on me, even though I am a terrible sinner" or "God, please be merciful to me. I am a great sinner"

# this man went back down to his house justified

He was justified because God forgave his sin. AT: "God forgave the tax collector" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-explicit]])

# rather than the other

"rather than the other man" or "and not the other man." AT: "but God did not forgive the Pharisee" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-explicit]])

# because everyone who exalts himself

With this phrase, Jesus switches from the story to state the general principle that the story illustrates.

# will be humbled

This can be stated in active form. AT: "God will humble" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-activepassive]])

# will be exalted

This can be stated in active form. AT: "God will greatly honor" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-activepassive]])

# translationWords

* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/taxcollector]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/heaven]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/mercy]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/sin]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/justify]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/exalt]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/humble]]