# Connecting Statement:

This is the next event in the part of the story which began in [Luke 17:20](../17/20.md). Jesus begins to talk with a ruler about entering the kingdom of heaven.

# A certain ruler

This introduces a new character in the story. It only identifies him by his position. (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/writing-participants]])

# what must I do

"what do I need to do" or "what is required of me"

# inherit eternal life

"receive life that does not end." The term "inherit" usually refers to the property that a man left to his children when he dies. Therefore, this metaphor may mean he understood himself to be a child of God and desired for God to give him eternal life. (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metaphor]])

# Why do you call me good? No one is good, except God alone

Jesus asks the question because he knows that the ruler will not like Jesus' answer to the ruler's question in verse 18. Jesus does not expect the ruler to answer Jesus' question. Jesus wants the ruler to understand that Jesus' answer to the ruler's question comes from God, who alone is good. AT: "You know that no one is good, except God alone, so to call me good is to compare me with God" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-rquestion]])

# do not kill

"do not murder"

# All these things

"All of these commandments"

# translationWords

* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/ruler]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/good]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/teacher]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/inherit]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/eternity]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/tencommandments]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/adultery]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/falsewitness]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/honor]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/obey]]