# Connecting Statement:

This is the next event in this part of the story that began in [Luke 17:20](../17/20.md). Jesus is talking to his disciples alone.

# gathered the twelve to himself

Jesus took the twelve disciples to a place away from other people where they could be alone.

# See

This indicates a significant change in the ministry of Jesus as he goes to Jerusalem for the final time.

# that have been written by the prophets

This can be stated in active form. AT: "that the prophets have written" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-activepassive]])

# the prophets

This refers to the Old Testament prophets.

# Son of Man ... he ... him ... him ... he

Jesus speaks of himself as "the Son of Man." AT: "me, the Son of Man, ... I ... me ... me ... I" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-123person]])

# will be accomplished

This can be stated in active form. AT: "will happen" or "will occur" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-activepassive]])

# For he will be given over to the Gentiles

This can be stated in active form. AT: "For the Jewish leaders will give him over to the Gentiles" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-activepassive]])

# will be mocked, and shamefully treated, and spit upon

This can be stated in active form. AT: "they will mock him, treat him shamefully, and spit on him" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-activepassive]])

# on the third day

This refers to the third day after his death. However, the disciples did not yet understand this, so it is best not to add this explanation when translating this verse. (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/translate-ordinal]])

# translationWords

* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/thetwelve]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/names/jerusalem]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/written]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/prophet]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/sonofman]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/gentile]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/mock]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/shame]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/raise]]