# Johanan ... Kareah

See how you translated these men's names in [Jeremiah 40:8](./08.md). (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/translate-names]])

# Gedaliah

See how you translated this name in [Jeremiah 39:14](../39/14.md).

# Ishmael ... Nethaniah

See how you translated these men's names in [Jeremiah 40:8](./08.md).

# No one will suspect me

"No one will think that I did it"

# Why should he kill you?

Johanan uses a rhetorical question to try to change Gedaliah's thinking. It can be translated as a statement. AT: "You should not allow him to kill you." (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-rquestion]])

# Why allow all of Judah that has been gathered to you to be scattered and the remnant of Judah destroyed?

Johanan uses a rhetorical question to try to get Gedaliah to think about what will happen if Gedaliah does what Gedaliah is planning to do. AT: "If you do this, all of Judah that has been gathered to you will be scattered and the remnant of Judah will be destroyed." (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-rquestion]])

# all of Judah

The word "all" is a generalization. AT: "many of the people of Judah" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-hyperbole]])

# that has been gathered to you

This can be translated in active form. AT: "who have come to you" or "whom Yahweh has brought to you" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-activepassive]])

# to be scattered

This can be translated in active form. AT: "to have the Chaldeans scatter them" or "to flee away to many different lands" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-activepassive]])

# the remnant of Judah destroyed

This can be translated in active form. AT: "allow the Chaldeans to destroy the remnant of Judah" or "and allow the remnant of Judah to perish" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-activepassive]] and [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-ellipsis]])

# remnant of Judah

"remnant of the people of Judah." See how you translated this in [Jeremiah 40:11](./11.md).

