# General Information:

King David continues to speak on behalf of Solomon as the one who will become king.

# he will come and sit on my throne

The words "sit on the throne" are used as a metonym for being king in [1 Kings 1:13](./13.md), [1 Kings 1:17](./15.md), and [1 Kings 1:30](./28.md). Here David speaks of Solomon literally sitting on a physical throne.

# So let it be!

They agree and will do what King David said.

# May Yahweh, the God of my master the king, confirm

Benaiah speaks to King David as if he were speaking to someone else to show that he respects King David. AT: "My master and king, may Yahweh your God confirm" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-pronouns]])

# has been with my master the king, so

Benaiah speaks to King David as if he were speaking to someone else to show that he respects King David. AT: "has been with you, my master the king, so" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-pronouns]])

# make his throne greater than the throne of my master King David

The word "throne" is a metonym for either 1) the person who sits on the throne. AT: "make the one who sits on the throne greater than my master King David" or 2) the kingdom over which the one who sits on the throne rules. AT: "make his kingdom greater than the kingdom of my master King David" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metonymy]])

# the throne of my master King David

Benaiah speaks to King David as if he were speaking to someone else to show that he respects King David. AT: "your throne, my master King David" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-pronouns]])

# translationWords

* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/throne]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/king]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/appoint]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/ruler]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/israel]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/judah]]