# General Information:

Moses speaks a poetic song to the people of Israel. Moses continues to use parallelism to emphasize what he is saying. (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-parallelism]])

# acted corruptly against him

"opposed him by doing what is wrong." See how you translated these words in [Deuteronomy 04:16](../04/15.md).

# a perverted and crooked generation

The words "perverted" and "crooked" mean basically the same thing. Moses uses them to emphasize how wicked the generation is. AT: "a completely wicked generation" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-doublet]])

# Do you reward Yahweh in this way ... people?

Moses uses a question to scold the people. AT: "You should give Yahweh proper praise ... people." (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-rquestion]])

# you foolish and senseless people

The words "foolish" and "senseless" mean the same thing and emphasize how foolish the people are for disobeying Yahweh. AT: "you extremely foolish people" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-doublet]])

# your father ... has created you ... made you and established you

Moses speaks to the Israelites as if they were one man, so the words "you" and "your" here are singular.

# Is he not your father, the one who has created you?

Moses uses a question to scold the people. This rhetorical question can be translated as a statement. AT: "Yahweh is your father and the one who created you." (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-rquestion]])

# translationWords

* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/corrupt]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/children]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/generation]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/reward]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/yahweh]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/foolish]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/peoplegroup]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/father]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/creation]]