# General Information:

Moses speaks a poetic song to the people of Israel.

# Call to mind ... think about ... your father ... show you ... your elders ... tell you

Moses speaks to the Israelites as if they were one man, so the words "you" and "your" here are singular. (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-you]])

# Call to mind

This is an idiom. AT: "Remember" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-idiom]])

# days of ancient times

"days of long ago." Moses refers to the time period when the ancestors of the people of Israel were alive.

# think about the years of many ages past

This is a repetition of what Moses just said in the previous portion. Moses wants the people of Israel to focus on their history as a nation. (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-parallelism]])

# he will show you

"he will make it clear to you" or "he will enable you to understand it"

# gave the nations their inheritance

This is an idiom. "put the nations in the places where they would live." Similar words, "giving to you as an inheritance," appear in [Deuteronomy 4:21](../04/21.md). (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-idiom]])

# he set the boundaries of the peoples, as he also fixed the number of their gods

God assigned each people group, together with its gods, to its own territory. In this way, he limited the influence of a people group's idols.

# translationWords

* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/call]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/mind]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/age]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/father]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/elder]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/mosthigh]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/nation]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/inherit]]