# General Information:

Moses speaks a poetic song to the people of Israel. He continues to quote Yahweh's words. (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-parallelism]])

# I will heap disasters on them

Yahweh speaks of bad things that would happen to the Israelites as if they were something like dirt that he could pile up on top of the Israelites. AT: "I will make sure that many bad things happen to them" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metaphor]])

# I will shoot all my arrows at them

Here Yahweh compares the bad things he will make sure happen to the Israelites to someone shooting arrows from a bow. AT: "I will do all I can do to kill them" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metaphor]])

# They will be wasted by hunger

This can be stated in active form. The abstract noun "hunger" can be translated as the verb "be hungry." AT: "They will grow weak and die because they are hungry" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-activepassive]] and [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-abstractnouns]])

# They will ... hunger and devoured by burning heat and bitter destruction

Possible meanings of "burning heat" are 1) the Israelites will suffer from fevers or 2) the weather will be unusually hot during a drought or famine. This can be stated in active form. AT: "They will ... hunger, and burning heat and terrible disasters will devour them" or "They will ... hunger, and they will die from burning heat and terrible disasters" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-activepassive]])

# I will send on them the teeth of wild animals, with the poison of things that crawl in the dust

The teeth and the poison are synecdoches for the animals that use these things to kill. AT: "I will send wild animals to bite them, and things that crawl in the dust to bite and poison them" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-synecdoche]])

# translationWords

* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/bowweapon]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/waste]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/devour]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/send]]