# General Information:

Jeremiah often wrote prophecy in the form of poetry. Hebrew poetry uses different kinds of parallelism. (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/writing-poetry]] and [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-parallelism]])

# To Moab

Here "Moab" represents the people. AT: "To the people of Moab" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metonymy]])

# Yahweh of hosts ... says this

Jeremiah often uses these words to introduce an important message from Yahweh. See how you translated this in [Jeremiah 6:6](../06/06.md).

# Woe to Nebo, for it has been devastated

Here "Nebo" represents the people. AT: "How terrible it is for the people of Nebo, for their city is devastated" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metonymy]])

# Nebo

This is the name of a city near Mount Nebo in Moab. (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/translate-names]])

# Kiriathaim has been captured and humiliated

Here "Kiriathaim has been ... humiliated" represents the people being humiliated. This can be stated in active form. AT: "The enemy has captured the city of Kiriathaim and humiliated the people who live there" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metonymy]]and [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-activepassive]])

# Kiriathaim

This is the name of a city in Moab. (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/translate-names]])

# Her fortress has been crushed and disgraced

Here "fortress has been ... disgraced" represents the people being disgraced. This can be stated in active form. AT: "The enemy has destroyed the fortress in Kiriathaim and disgraced its people" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metonymy]]and [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-activepassive]])

# The honor of Moab is no more

"People no longer honor Moab" or "People no longer praise Moab"

# Heshbon

This is the name of a city. (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/translate-names]])

# Madmen will also perish

"Madmen" is a town in Moab. The name of the city has nothing to do with the English word "madmen." AT: "Their enemies will destroy the city of Madmen" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/translate-names]])

# a sword will go after you

Here "sword" represents the enemy army carrying weapons. AT: "your enemies will chase after you and kill you" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metonymy]])

# translationWords

* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/moab]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/yahwehofhosts]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/god]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/israel]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/woe]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/devastated]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/stronghold]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/honor]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/adversary]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/nation]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/perish]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/sword]]