# Make him drunk, because he acted proudly against Yahweh

Yahweh is speaking. The command "Make him drunk" indicates what Yahweh will cause to happen. Here "him" and "he" refers to Moab which represents the people of Moab. AT: "I, Yahweh, will cause the people of Moab to be drunk, for they acted proudly against me" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-imperative]] and [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metonymy]])

# Make him drunk

Here people experiencing Yahweh's punishment is spoken of as if they were drunk on wine, acting foolishly so that people laugh at them. AT: "I will cause you to be like a drunk person" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metaphor]])

# Let Moab wallow in his vomit ... an object for laughter

Yahweh continues speaking of the people of Moab as if they were a drunk person. AT: "Now the people of Moab will be like a person who wallows in his vomit ... an object for laughter (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metaphor]])

# let him be an object of ridicule

"so that people will laugh at him"

# For did not Israel become an object for laughter to you?

Yahweh uses a question to remind the people of Moab how they treated the people of Israel. AT: "For you used to mock and laugh at the people of Israel." (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-rquestion]])

# Israel ... Was he found ... at him ... about him

Here "Israel" represents the people of Israel. AT: "the people of Israel ... Were they found ... at them ... about them" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metonymy]])

# Was he found among thieves, so that you shook your head ... about him?

Here Yahweh uses a question to rebuke the people of Moab for treating the people of Israel with shame though they did nothing wrong. AT: "Although they were not thieves, you still shook your head ... about him." (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-rquestion]])

# shook your head at him

This is a symbolic action that shows feeling of scorn or disgust towards someone. (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/translate-symaction]])

# translationWords

* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/drunk]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/proud]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/yahweh]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/moab]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/israel]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/thief]]