# This is Yahweh's declaration

Yahweh speaks of himself by name to express the certainty of what he is declaring. See how you translated this in [Jeremiah 1:8](../01/07.md). AT: "This is what Yahweh has declared" or "This is what I, Yahweh, have declared" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-123person]])

# I myself know his defiant speech

The word "myself" is used to emphasize that Yahweh was the one who knew about Moab's defiant speech. (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-rpronouns]])

# his defiant speech ... like his deeds

Here "his" refers to Moab which represents the people of Moab. AT: "their defiant speech ... like their deeds" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metonymy]])

# his defiant speech

The abstract noun "speech" can be stated as a verb. AT: "that he has spoken pridefully" or "that he has spoken arrogant words" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-abstractnouns]])

# I will howl a lament for Moab, and I will shout in sorrow for all of Moab

Both of these statements mean the same thing. AT: "I will cry loudly for the people of Moab" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-parallelism]])

# I will howl

Possible meanings are 1) "I" refers to Jeremiah or 2) "I" refers to Yahweh.

# howl

a sad and loud cry that a person makes when he is in pain or deep sorrow

# Kir Hareseth

This is the name of the old capital city of Moab. (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/translate-names]])

# Jazer ... Sibmah

These are the names of two towns in Moab. (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/translate-names]])

# vine of Sibmah! Your branches passed ... your wine

The town of Sibmah had many vineyards. Here, Yahweh speaks to the people of Sibmah as if there were a grapevine. AT: "people of Sibmah, who are like a grapevine with branches that passed ... your wine" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metaphor]])

# The destroyers have attacked your summer fruit and your wine

Yahweh continues speaking of the people of Sibmah as if they were a grapevine. AT: "The destroyers have attacked you and have taken the fruit from your vineyards and your wine" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metaphor]])

# The destroyers have

"The enemy army has"

# translationWords

* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/works]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/lament]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/vine]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/saltsea]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/destroyer]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/fruit]]