# There is mourning everywhere

The abstract noun "mourning" can be stated as a verb. AT: "There are people mourning everywhere" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-abstractnouns]])

# every flat roof

"every housetop"

# plazas

open public areas, such as open marketplaces

# For I have destroyed

The word "I" refers to Yahweh

# this is Yahweh's declaration

Yahweh speaks of himself by name to express the certainty of what he is declaring. See how you translated this in [Jeremiah 1:8](../01/07.md). AT: "this is what Yahweh has declared" or "this is what I, Yahweh, have declared" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-123person]])

# How it has been shattered! How they howl in their lamenting!

Here "How" begins exclamations. The phrase "has been shattered" can be stated in active form. AT: "I have completely shattered them! They shout loudly and weep!" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-exclamations]] and [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-activepassive]])

# howl

a sad and loud cry that a person makes when he is in pain

# Moab turns its back in shame

Here Moab represents the people. To turn one's back is a sign of feeling ashamed. AT: "The people of Moab turn their backs in shame" or "The people of Moab are ashamed and will not show their faces" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metonymy]] and [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/translate-symaction]])

# So Moab will become an object of derision and a terror to all those who are around him

This can be restated to remove the abstract nouns "derision" and "terror." AT: "So all the people nearby will be terrified at what happened to the people of Moab and they will mock them" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-abstractnouns]])

# translationWords

* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/mourn]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/terror]]