# the centurion

This is the centurion who supervised the soldiers who crucified Jesus.

# who stood and faced Jesus

"who stood in front of Jesus" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metaphor]]).

# that he had died in this way

"how Jesus had died" or "the way Jesus had died"

# Son of God

This is an important title for Jesus. (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/guidelines-sonofgodprinciples]])

# looked on from a distance

"watched from far away"

# (the mother of James ... and of Joses)

"who was the mother of James ... and of Joses." This can be written without the parentheses.

# James the younger

"the younger James." This man was referred to as "the younger" probably to distinguish him from another man named James.

# Joses

This Joses was not that same person as the younger brother of Jesus. See how you translated the same name in [Mark 6:3](../06/01.md). (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/translate-names]])

# Salome

Salome is the name of a woman. (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/translate-names]])

# When he was in Galilee they followed him ... with him to Jerusalem

"When Jesus was in Galilee these women followed him ... with him to Jerusalem." This is background information about the women who watched the crucifixion from a distance. (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/writing-background]])

# came up with him to Jerusalem

Jerusalem was higher than almost any other place in Israel, so it was normal for people to speak of going up to Jerusalem and going down from it.

# translationWords

* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/centurion]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/amen]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/sonofgod]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/names/marymagdalene]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/names/mary]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/names/jamesbrotherofjesus]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/names/galilee]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/names/jerusalem]]