# Connecting Statement:

Joseph of Arimathea asks Pilate for the body of Jesus, which he wraps in linen and puts in a tomb.

# evening had come

Here evening is spoken of as if it were something that is able to "come" from one place to another. AT: "it had become evening" or "it was evening" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metaphor]])

# Joseph of Arimathea came there. He was a respected

The phrase "came there" refers to Joseph coming to Pilate, which is also described after the background information is given, but his coming is referenced before for emphasis and to help introduce him to the story. There may be a different way to do this in your language. AT: "Joseph of Arimathea was a respected" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/writing-participants]])

# Joseph of Arimathea

"Joseph from Arimathea." Joseph is the name of a man, and Arimathea is the name of the place his is from. (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/translate-names]])

# He was a respected member of the council ... for the kingdom of God

This is background information about Joseph. (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/writing-background]])

# went in to Pilate

"went to Pilate" or "went in to where Pilate was"

# asked for the body of Jesus

It can be stated clearly that he wanted to get the body so that he could bury it. AT: "asked for permission to get the body of Jesus in order to bury it" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-explicit]])

# Pilate was amazed that Jesus was already dead; he called the centurion

Pilate heard people saying that Jesus was dead. This surprised him, so he asked the centurion if it was true. This can be made clear. AT: "Pilate was amazed when he heard that Jesus was already dead, so he called the centurion" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-explicit]])

# translationWords

* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/sabbath]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/council]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/kingdomofgod]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/bold]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/names/pilate]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/amazed]]