# In that way

"If you do this." This phrase refers to what he has just said in previous verses.

# you will not give away your honor to others

Possible meanings for the word "honor" are 1) it refers to one's reputation. AT: "You will not lose your good reputation among other people" or 2) it refers to one's wealth and possessions. AT: "You will not give away your wealth to other people" or 3) it refers to strength and represents the prime years of one's life. AT: "You will not give away the best times of your life to other people"

# or years of your life to a cruel person

The writer speaks of a person dying prematurely, possibly by murder, as if the years of his life were items that he gives away to another person. The verb may be supplied from the previous phrase. AT: "or give years of your life to a cruel person" or "or cause a cruel person to kill you while you are still young" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-ellipsis]] and [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metaphor]])

# a cruel person

This may refer to the husband of the adulteress, who will deal cruelly with the person who sleeps with her.

# strangers will not feast on your wealth

The writer speaks of people taking and enjoying another person's wealth as if they were feasting on the wealth. AT: "strangers will not take all of your wealth" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metaphor]])

# what you have worked for will not go into the house of strangers

Here the word "house" represents the person's family. AT: "the things that you have obtained will not end up belonging to the families of strangers" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metonymy]])

# translationWords

* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/honor]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/life]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/feast]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/house]]