# water from your own cistern ... running water from your own well

These two phrases mean basically the same thing. The writer speaks of a man sleeping only with his wife as if he drank water only from his own cistern or well. (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-parallelism]] and [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metaphor]])

# running water

The writer speaks of fresh or flowing water as if the water were running. AT: "fresh water" or "flowing water" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metaphor]])

# Should your springs ... your streams of water flow in the public squares?

The writer asks this rhetorical question to emphasize that his son should not do these things. AT: "Your springs should not ... your streams of water should not flow in the public squares." (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-rquestion]])

# Should your springs ... your streams of water flow in the public squares?

Here the words "springs" and "streams of water" are likely euphemisms for male reproductive fluids. Possible meanings for these metaphorical phrases are 1) sleeping with women other than one's wife is spoken of as if it were allowing one's water to flow in the public streets or 2) having children with women other than one's wife is spoken of as if it were allowing one's water to flow in the public streets. (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-euphemism]] and [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metaphor]])

# public squares

Open areas in a city or town where two or more streets meet. A common place for people to meet each other and talk.

# Let them be

The word "them" refers to the "springs" and "streams of water" and what they stand for.

# not for strangers with you

"do not share them with strangers"

# translationWords

* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/well]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/fountain]]