# May your fountain be blessed

The writer speaks of the son's wife as if she were a fountain. Here the word "blessed" refers to the sense of joy that the man has in his wife. AT: "May you always find joy with your wife" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metaphor]])

# the wife of your youth

Possible meanings are 1) "the wife whom you married when you were young" or 2) "your young wife."

# she is a loving deer and a graceful doe

The writer speaks of the son's wife as if she were "a loving deer and a graceful doe." Here "deer" and "doe" mean a female deer. They were symbols of beauty both in their appearance and in their movements. AT: "she is as beautiful and graceful as a deer or a doe" or "she is as beautiful and graceful as a female deer" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metaphor]])

# graceful

This word does not mean "full of grace," but "beautiful while moving."

# Let her breasts satisfy you

Possible meanings are 1) the wife's breasts excite the husband's sexual desire and possibly represent the wife's entire body. AT: "Let her breasts satisfy your desires" or "Let her body satisfy your desires" or 2) this is a metaphor in which the writer speaks of the wife's breasts satisfying the husband's desires as they would satisfy the thirst of a hungry baby. AT: "Let her breasts fill you with delight as a mother's breasts fill her child with food" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-synecdoche]] and [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metaphor]])

# may you be continually intoxicated by her love

Intense excitement and joy from the romantic love of one's wife is spoken of as if he was drunk from that love. This can be stated in active form. AT: "let her love control you as alcohol controls someone who is drunk" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-activepassive]])

# by her love

Possible meanings are 1) "by your love for her" or 2) "by her love for you."

# translationWords

* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/fountain]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/bless]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/joy]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/deer]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/love]]