# has rung out

Here Paul speaks of the Christian witness produced by the Thessalonian believers as if it were a bell that was rung or a musical instrument that was being played. (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metaphor]])

# Achaia

This is an ancient district in what is now present-day Greece. (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/translate-names]])

# For they themselves ... They tell ... They report

Paul is referring to the churches that already existed in the surrounding regions, who have heard about the Thessalonian believers.

# they themselves

Here "themselves" is used to emphasize those people who had heard about the Thessalonian believers. (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-rpronouns]])

# what kind of coming we had among you

Here "coming" stands for the enthusiastic welcome experienced by Paul and his companions. AT: "how warmly you welcomed us" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metonymy]])

# his Son

This is an important title for Jesus that describes his relationship to God. (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/guidelines-sonofgodprinciples]])

# whom he raised

"whom God raised"

# from the dead

From among all those who have died. This expression describes all dead people together in the underworld. To come back from among them speaks of becoming alive again.

# who frees us

Here Paul includes the Thessalonian believers. (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-inclusive]])

# translationWords

* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/wordofgod]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/names/macedonia]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/faith]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/god]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/falsegod]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/serve]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/sonofgod]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/heaven]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/raise]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/jesus]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/wrath]]