# General Information:

Yahweh shows Amos another vision.

# Strike the tops ... Break them

It is uncertain to whom Yahweh is speaking these commands.

# Strike the tops of the pillars so that the foundations will shake

It is implied that Yahweh is speaking about the pillars and foundations of a temple. (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-explicit]])

# so that the foundations will shake

Here "foundations" represents the whole temple. AT: "so that the whole temple will shake" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-synecdoche]])

# Break them in pieces on all of their heads

Here "heads" represents the whole person. AT: "Break the pillars so that the temple falls on all of the people and kills them" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-synecdoche]])

# I will kill the last of them with the sword

Here "sword" represents an army attacking with their weapons. AT: "I will send an enemy army to kill the rest of them" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metonymy]])

# Though they dig into Sheol, there my hand will take them. Though they climb up to heaven, there I will bring them down

Yahweh uses an exaggerated image of people fleeing to Sheol or heaven to try to escape being killed. Here "Sheol" and "heaven" are a merism that represents all places. AT: "Even if they were to flee to Sheol or to heaven, they would not be able to escape me" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-hyperbole]] and [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-merism]])

# there my hand will take them

Here "hand" represents Yahweh's power. AT: "I will pull them up from there" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metonymy]])