# Are you not like the people of Cush to me, people of Israel?

Yahweh uses a question to emphasize that the people of Israel are no more special to him than the people of Cush. AT: "You people of Israel, you are certainly now no more important to me than the people of Cush." (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-rquestion]])

# this is Yahweh's declaration

Yahweh speaks of himself by name to express the certainty of what he is declaring. See how you translated these words in [Amos 2:11](../02/11.md). AT: "this is what Yahweh has declared" or "this is what I, Yahweh, have declared" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-123person]])

# Did I not bring up Israel out of the land of Egypt, the Philistines from Crete, and the Arameans from Kir?

Yahweh uses a question to emphasize that the people of Israel are no more special than the Philistines or the Arameans. AT: "Yes, I brought the people of Israel from the land of Egypt, but I also brought the Philistines from Crete and the Arameans from Kir." (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-rquestion]])

# Kir

See how you translated the name of this place in [Amos 1:5](../01/05.md).

# the eyes of the Lord Yahweh are on the sinful kingdom

Here "eyes" represents seeing. Also, Yahweh speaks of himself in third person. AT: "I, the Lord Yahweh, see that the people of this kingdom are very sinful" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metonymy]] and [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-123person]])

# I will destroy it from the face of the earth

The idiom "from the face of the earth" means "completely." AT: "I will completely destroy this kingdom" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-idiom]])

# the house of Jacob

Here "house" represents a family. And, "Jacob" represents his descendants. AT: "the descendants of Jacob" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metonymy]])

# translationWords

* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/peoplegroup]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/ethiopia]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/israel]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/philistines]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/crete]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/aram]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/sin]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/kingdom]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/house]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/jacob]]