# General Information:

This is the beginning of a new part of the story that runs through [Matthew 18:35](./34.md), where Jesus teaches about life in the kingdom of heaven. Here, Jesus uses a little child to teach the disciples.

# Who is greatest

"Who is the most important" or "Who among us will be the most important"

# in the kingdom of heaven

The phrase "kingdom of heaven" refers to God's rule as king. This phrase is used only in the book of Matthew. If possible, keep "heaven" in your translation. AT: "in God's kingdom" or "when our God in heaven establishes his rule on earth" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metonymy]])

# Truly I say to you

"I tell you the truth." This adds emphasis to what Jesus says next.

# unless you turn ... you will in no way enter

This can be stated in positive form. AT: "you must change ... in order to enter" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-doublenegatives]])

# become like little children

Jesus uses a simile to teach the disciples that they should not be concerned with who is most important. They should be concerned with becoming humble like a child. (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-simile]])

# enter the kingdom of heaven

The phrase "kingdom of heaven" refers to God's rule as king. This phrase is used only in the book of Matthew. If possible, keep "heaven" in your translation. AT: "enter God's kingdom" or "belong to our God in heaven when he establishes his rule on earth" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metonymy]])