# Connecting Statement:

Jesus continues teaching the disciples that they need to be humble like a child if they want to be important in God's kingdom. (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-simile]])

# is the greatest

"is the most important" or "will be the most important"

# in the kingdom of heaven

The phrase "kingdom of heaven" refers to God's rule as king. This phrase is used only in the book of Matthew. If possible, keep "heaven" in your translation. AT: "in God's kingdom" or "when our God in heaven establishes his rule on earth" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metonymy]])

# in my name

Here "my name" refers to the entire person. AT: "because of me" or "because he is my disciple" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metonymy]])

# receives me

Jesus means it is the same as welcoming him. AT: "it is like he is welcoming me" or "it is as if he were welcoming me"

# a great millstone should be hung about his neck, and that he should be sunk into the depths of the sea

This can be stated in active form. AT: "if someone put a great millstone around his neck and threw him into the deep sea" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-activepassive]])

# millstone

This is a large, heavy, circular stone used for grinding wheat grain into flour. AT: "a heavy stone"

# translationWords

* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/humble]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/kingdomofgod]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/receive]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/name]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/believe]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/sin]]