# Connecting Statement:

Jesus continues to use a little child to teach the disciples and tells a parable to explain God's care for people.

# What do you think?

Jesus uses this question to get people's attention. AT: "Think about how people act." or "Think about this." (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-rquestion]])

# you ... your

All occurrences of these words are plural. (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-you]])

# If anyone ... that did not go astray

Jesus uses a parable to teach his disciples. (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-parables]])

# a hundred ... ninety-nine

"100 ... 99" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/translate-numbers]])

# does he not leave ... astray?

Jesus uses a question to teach his disciples. AT: "he will always leave ... astray." (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-rquestion]])

# truly I say to you

"I tell you the truth." This adds emphasis to what Jesus says next.

# it is not the will of your Father in heaven that one of these little ones should perish

"your Father in heaven does not want any of these little ones to die" or "your Father in heaven does not want even one of these little ones to die"

# Father

This is an important title for God. (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/guidelines-sonofgodprinciples]])

# translationWords

* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/sheep]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/astray]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/amen]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/rejoice]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/willofgod]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/father]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/heaven]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/perish]]