# Connecting Statement:

Jesus finishes speaking to the crowd.

# For see

This introduces the reason why the women of Jerusalem should weep for themselves.

# the days are coming

"there will soon be a time"

# in which they will say

"when people will say"

# the barren

"women who have not given birth to children"

# the wombs that did not bear ... the breasts that did not nurse

These clauses are used to more fully describe "the barren." Those women neither gave birth nor nursed children. It may be helpful to combine these together with "the barren." AT: "the women who have never given birth to children or nursed babies"

# Then

"At that time"

# to the hills

Words are left out to keep the phrase short. AT: "they will say to the hills" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-ellipsis]])

# For if they do these things while the tree is green, what will happen when it is dry?

Jesus uses a question to help the crowd understand that people are doing bad things now in good times, so certainly they will do worse things in the bad times in the future. AT: "You can see that they are doing these bad things while the tree is green, so you can be sure that they will do worse things when the tree is dry" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-rquestion]])

# the tree is green

The green tree is a metaphor for something that is good. If your language has a similar metaphor, you should use it here. (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metaphor]])

# it is dry

The dry wood is a metaphor for something that will be useful only to burn. (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metaphor]])

# they

This can refer to either the Romans or the Jewish leaders, or no one in particular.

# translationWords

* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/bless]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/barren]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/womb]]