# Now

This word is used here to mark a break in the main narrative. Here John explains that many of the people came to meet Jesus because they heard others say that he had raised Lazarus from the dead. (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/writing-background]])

# they heard that he had done this sign

"they heard others say that he had done this sign"

# this sign

A "sign" is an event or occurrence that proves something is true. In this case, the "sign" of raising Lazarus proves that Jesus is the Messiah.

# Look, you can do nothing

The Pharisees imply here that it might be impossible to stop Jesus. AT: "It seems like we can do nothing to stop him!" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-explicit]])

# see, the world has gone after him

The Pharisees use this exaggeration to express their shock that so many people have come out to meet Jesus. AT: "It looks like everyone is becoming his disciple!" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-hyperbole]])

# the world

Here "the world" is a metonym that represents (in exaggeration) all of the people in the world. You may need to make explicit that the hearers would have understood that the Pharisees were speaking only of the people in Judea. (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metonymy]] and [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-explicit]])

# translationWords

* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/lazarus]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/tomb]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/testimony]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/sign]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/pharisee]]