# The Son of Man must be lifted up

The phrase "lifted up" means crucified. You may translate this in a way that includes the implied words "on a cross." AT: "The Son of Man must be lifted up on a cross?" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-ellipsis]])

# Who is this Son of Man?

Possible meanings are 1) "What is the identity of this Son of Man? or 2) "What kind of Son of Man are you talking about?"

# The light will still be with you for a short amount of time. Walk while you have the light, so that darkness does not overtake you. He who walks in the darkness does not know where he is going

Here "light" is a metaphor for Jesus' teachings which reveal the truth of God. To "walk in darkness" is a metaphor that means to live without God's truth. AT: "My words are like a light to you, to help you understand how to live as God wants you to. I will not be with you much longer. You need to follow my instructions while I am still with you. If you reject my words, it will be like walking in darkness and you cannot see where you are going" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metaphor]])

# While you have the light, believe in the light so that you may be sons of light

The "light" is a metaphor for the teachings of Jesus which reveal the truth of God. "sons of light" is a metaphor for those who accept the message of Jesus and live according to God's truth. AT: "While I am with you, believe what I teach so that God's truth will be in you" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metaphor]])

# translationWords

* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/lawofmoses]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/christ]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/eternity]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/sonofman]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/believe]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/overtake]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/son]]