# Put your sword on your side

Warriors carried their swords in a sheath that hung from a belt around their waist. The sword would rest against their side. This phrase describes an action of someone preparing for battle. AT: "Prepare yourself for battle" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-explicit]])

# ride on triumphantly

The writer tells the king to ride his horse or chariot to victory.

# because of trustworthiness, meekness, and righteousness

The abstract nouns "trustworthiness," "meekness," and "righteousness" can be stated as adjectives. Possible meanings are 1) these are qualities of the mighty one. AT: "because you are trustworthy, meek, and righteous" or 2) these are virtues that he fights to uphold for the people whom he rules. AT: "in order to fight for what is trustworthy, meek, and right" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-abstractnouns]])

# your right hand will teach you fearful things

Most soldiers held their swords with their right hands when they fought. Here, the phrase "right hand" refers to his ability to fight, which the writer speaks of as if it were a person who can teach the king through the experience he gains in battle. AT: "You will learn to accomplish great military feats by fighting in many battles" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metonymy]] and [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-personification]])

# fearful things

"awesome deeds." This refers to military victories that cause his enemies to fear him and his allies to revere him.

# translationWords

* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/sword]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/mighty]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/glory]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/majesty]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/trust]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/meek]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/righteous]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/righthand]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/fear]]