# See

This tells the hearer to pay special attention to what follows.

# turn back

Possible meanings are 1) to make useless or 2) to send back into the city.

# the instruments of war that are in your hand

Possible meanings are 1) the instruments of war refers to the soldiers who carry them and "hand" represents control. AT: "the soldiers that you command" or 2) the instruments of war are literal weapons and "your hand" represent both the king and his soldiers. AT: "the weapons that you and your soldiers carry" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metonymy]] and [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-synecdoche]])

# Chaldeans

This term here is another name for the Babylonians.

# closing you in

"coming close to you"

# I will gather them

Possible meanings are 1) Yahweh will allow the Babylonians to enter the city or 2) Yahweh will cause the Israelites to bring their weapons back into the center of the city.

# Then I myself

This is emphatic and stresses that Yahweh is the one who will do this. (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-rpronouns]])

# with a raised hand and a strong arm

Both of these phrases are idiomatic expressions that refer to great power. AT: "with very great power" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-idiom]] and [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-doublet]])

# with wrath, fury, and great anger

These words all mean basically the same thing. Together they emphasize the great intensity of his anger. AT: "with extremely great anger" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-doublet]])

# translationWords

* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/god]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/israel]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/turn]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/hand]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/chaldeans]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/raise]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/wrath]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/angry]]