# See

This alerts whoever is hearing to pay special attention to what follows. AT: "Pay attention"

# inhabitant of the valley

Possible meanings are 1) this may refer to Jerusalem, which was located above a valley, because "inhabitant" is singular and feminine, as is Jerusalem or 2) this is directed to another city or group of people. Most versions leave the original form rather than specifying the city.

# I am against

"I oppose" or "I am going to punish"

# rock of the plain

This is a metaphor for a city whose people can defend themselves surrounded by cities that would be difficult to defend. This is also a metonym for the people who live in that city. Yahweh is using irony to tell them that they cannot defend themselves. AT: "you people who think you are safe" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metaphor]] and [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metonymy]] and [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-irony]])

# this is Yahweh's declaration

Yahweh speaks of himself by name to express the certainty of what he is declaring. See how you translated this in [Jeremiah 1:8](../01/07.md). AT: "this is what Yahweh has declared" or "this is what I, Yahweh, have declared" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-123person]])

# Who will come down to attack us? ... Who will enter our houses?

These questions are used to state their confidence that they can resist attack. AT: "No one will attack us! ... No one will enter our houses!" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-rquestion]])

# I have assigned the fruit of your practices to come against you

The result of their evil deeds is spoken of as fruit which grew from those practices. AT: "I will punish you as you deserve because of the things you have done" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metaphor]])

# in the thickets

Possible meanings are 1) this is a metaphor for the columns of wood that supported the palace or 2) these are literal patches of brush. (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metaphor]])