# General Information:

Paul talks about believers who have died, who are still alive, and those who will be alive when Christ returns.

# We do not want you to be uninformed

This can be stated in positive form. AT: "We want you to be informed" or "We want you to know"

# brothers

Here "brothers" means fellow Christians.

# those who sleep

Here "sleep" is a euphemism for those who are dead. (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-euphemism]])

# so that you do not grieve like the rest

"because we do not want you grieve like the rest"

# grieve

"mourn"

# like the rest who do not have confidence in the future promise.

"like people who do not confidence in the future promise." It can be stated clearly what those people do not have confidence. AT: "like people who do not have the confident assurance that they will rise from the dead" or "like people who do not have the certain expectation of rising from the dead"

# if we believe

Here "we" refers to Paul and his audience. (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-inclusive]])

# rose again

"rose to live again"

# those who have fallen asleep in him

Here "fallen asleep" is a polite way to refer to having died. (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-euphemism]])

# by the word of the Lord

"Word" is a metonym for "message". AT: "by means of understanding the teachings of the Lord" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metonymy]])

# at the coming of the Lord

"when the Lord returns"

# translationWords

* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/brother]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/hope]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/jesus]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/god]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/wordofgod]]