# General Information:

Moses continues to tell the people of Israel Yahweh's words. In verse 25 he speaks to the group as a group, so the forms of "you" are plural, but in verse 26 he speaks as if the Israelites are one person, so the forms are singular. (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-you]])

# You will burn

This is a command.

# their gods

"the gods of the other nations"

# do not covet ... trapped by it

These words add to the instruction to burn the idols.

# you will become trapped by it

Even taking the gold or silver on the idols could cause the people to start worshiping them. By doing this they would become like an animal caught by a trap. This can be stated in active form. AT: "it will become a trap to you" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metaphor]] and [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-activepassive]])

# for it is an abomination to Yahweh your God

These words tell why Yahweh wants the people to burn the idols. "do this because Yahweh your God hates it very much"

# You will utterly detest and abhor

The words "detest" and "abhor" mean basically the same thing and emphasize the intensity of hatred. AT: "You will completely hate" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-doublet]])

# for it is set apart for destruction

Yahweh cursing something and promising to destroy it is spoken of as if Yahweh were setting the object apart from everything else. This can be stated in active form. AT: "for Yahweh has set it apart for destruction" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metaphor]] and [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-activepassive]])