# lay up these words of mine in your heart and soul

A person always thinking about and considering what Moses commands is spoken of as if the heart and soul were a container and Moses's words were the content to fill the container. AT: "be very careful to remember these words that I am saying to you" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metaphor]])

# these words of mine

"these commands that I have given you"

# your heart and soul

Here "heart" and "soul" represent a person's mind or thoughts. (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metonymy]])

# bind them

"tie these words." This is a metonymy that represents a person writing the words on a parchment, putting the parchment in a pouch, and tying the pouch. This metonymy in turn may be a metaphor meaning the people must be careful to obey Moses's commands. See how you translated similar phrases in [Deuteronomy 6:8](../06/08.md). (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metonymy]] and [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metaphor]])

# as a sign on your hand

"as something to make you remember my laws"

# let them be as frontlets between your eyes

"let my words be as as frontlets between your eyes." This is a metonymy that represents a person writing Moses' words on parchement, putting the parchement in a pouch, and tying the pouch so it sits between his eyes. This metonymy in turn may be a metaphor that means the person must be careful to obey all of Moses' commands. See how you translated similar phrases in [Deuteronomy 6:8](../06/08.md). (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metonymy]] and [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metaphor]])

# frontlets

ornaments a person wears on the forehead

# when you sit in your house, when you walk on the road, when you lie down, and when you get up

Using the different places "in your house" and "on the road," and the opposites "when you lie down" and "get up," represent anywhere, anytime. The people of Israel were to discuss God's commandments and teach them to their children anytime and anywhere. (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-merism]])

# translationWords

* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/word]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/heart]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/soul]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/bond]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/sign]]