# General Information:

Here Moses summarizes the two options the people of Israel could choose. They could choose to obey and receive God's blessing or they could choose to disobey and receive God's punishment.

# Look

"Pay attention"

# I set before you today a blessing and a curse

Allowing the people to choose whether they want God to bless them or curse them is spoken of as if a blessing and a curse were objects that Moses is setting in front of them. AT: "Today you must choose whether God will bless you or curse you" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metaphor]])

# the blessing, if you ... the curse, if you

The abstract nouns "blessings" and "curse" can be translated with verbs. AT: "God will bless you if you ... God will curse you if you" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-abstractnouns]])

# but turn aside from the way that I command you today, to go after other gods

The commands of Yahweh that Moses is telling the people are spoken of as if they were God's way or road. To not obey God's commands is spoken of as if people physically were to turn in another direction away from Yahweh to follow other gods. AT: "but stop obeying what I command you today, in order to worship other gods" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metaphor]])

# other gods that you have not known

This refers to the gods that other people groups worship. The Israelites know Yahweh because he has revealed himself to them and they have experienced his power.

# translationWords

* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/bless]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/curse]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/command]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/turn]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/falsegod]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/know]]