# General Information:

Moses continues speaking to the people of Israel.

# you will set the blessing on Mount Gerizim, and the curse on Mount Ebal

The blessing and the curse are spoken of as if they were objects that someone will set on the mountains. AT: "some of you must stand on top of Mount Gerazim and proclaim what will cause Yahweh to bless you, and the others must stand on top of Mount Ebal and proclaim what will cause Yahweh to curse you" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metaphor]])

# Mount Gerizim ... Mount Ebal

These are names of mountains on the west side of the Jordan River. (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/translate-names]])

# Are they not beyond the Jordan ... Moreh?

The Israelites are on the eastern side of the Jordan River. Moses uses a question to remind the people where these mountains are located. This question can be translated as a statement. AT: "As you know, they are beyond the Jordan ... Moreh." (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-rquestion]])

# beyond the Jordan

"on the west side of the Jordan River"

# west of the western road

"in the west"

# over against Gilgal

"near Gilgal" This may not be the same place as the city near Jericho. Moses may be referring to a place that is near Shechem. (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/translate-names]])

# oaks of Moreh

These are sacred trees near Gilgal. (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/translate-names]])

# translationWords

* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/possess]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/names/jordanriver]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/names/canaan]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/life]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/names/arabah]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/names/gilgal]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/oak]]