# The heart is more deceitful

Here the word "heart" refers to the minds and thoughts of people. AT: "The human mind is more deceitful" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metonymy]])

# who can understand it?

The speaker uses this rhetorical question to emphasize that no one can understand the human heart. It can be translated as a statement. AT: "no one can understand it." (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-rquestion]])

# who tests the hearts

Here the word "hearts" represents the emotions. AT: "who tests the emotions" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metonymy]])

# according to his ways

Here a person's behavior is spoken of as if it were the paths along which he walks. AT: "according to how he lives" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metaphor]])

# the fruit of his deeds

Here the results of a person's actions are spoken of as if they were fruit. AT: "what he has done" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metaphor]])

# A partridge hatches an egg ... become rich unjustly

This analogy of a bird that hatches another bird's eggs is meant to illustrate a rich man who makes his money by robbing others.

# when half his days are over

Here the word "days" stands for someone's entire life. AT: "when he has lived only half of his life" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-idiom]])

# those riches will abandon him

The riches are spoken of as if they were servants who would abandon their owner. AT: "he will lose his wealth" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-personification]])

# in the end

"at the end of his life"