# The place of our temple is a glorious throne

Jeremiah speaks of the temple being a "glorious throne" because it is there that Yahweh dwells and rules. (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metaphor]])

# The place of our temple

This refers to Mount Zion in Jerusalem.

# All who abandon you

Here the word "you" refers to Yahweh.

# those in the land who turn away from you will be written in the earth

This can be stated in active form. AT: "you will write in the dust those in the land who turn away from you" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-activepassive]])

# will be written in the earth

Possible meanings are 1) this is a metaphor in which Yahweh speaks of people dying and being forgotten as if someone writes their names in the dust, and those names quickly disappear. AT: "will disappear like names that someone writes in the dust" or 2) the word "earth" is a metonym for the place of the dead. The phrase is a metaphor in which Yahweh speaks of people going to the place of the dead as if someone enrolled their names in the records of those who have died. AT: "will join those in the place of the dead" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metaphor]] and [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metonymy]])

# Yahweh, the fountain of living waters

Jeremiah speaks of Yahweh being the source of life as if he were a fountain of living waters. AT: "Yahweh, who is like a fountain of living waters" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metaphor]])

# the fountain of living waters

Jeremiah speaks of fresh, running water as if it were living water. AT: "the fountain of fresh, running water" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metaphor]])

# I will be healed ... I will be rescued

This can be stated in active form. AT: "you really will have healed me ... you really will have rescued me" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-activepassive]])

# For you are my song of praise

Possible meanings are 1) "For you are the one whom I praise" or 2) "For you are the reason I sing praise."