# See

"Look" or "Listen" or "Pay attention to what I am about to tell you."

# they are saying to me

Here the word "me" refers to Jeremiah and the word "they" to his enemies.

# Where is the word of Yahweh?

The people use this question to ridicule Jeremiah because the things that he said had not yet happened. It can also be translated as a statement. AT: "Where are the things that Yahweh told you would happen?" or "The things that Yahweh told you would happen have not happened." (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-rquestion]] and [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-explicit]])

# Let it come

"Let what Yahweh has said happen"

# I did not run from being a shepherd following you

Jeremiah speaks of leading and caring for the people as if he were a shepherd caring for sheep. He speaks of his abandoning that work as if he were running away from it. (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metaphor]])

# I did not long for

"I did not desire"

# the proclamations that came from my lips

Here the word "lips" represents Jeremiah who spoke. The word "proclamations" can be translated with a verbal phrase. AT: "the proclamations that I spoke" or "the things that I proclaimed" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-synecdoche]] and [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-abstractnouns]])

# They were made

This can be stated in active form. AT: "I made them" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-activepassive]])

# translationWords

* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/wordofgod]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/shepherd]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/proclaim]]