# General Information:

This psalm is a song about Jerusalem being God's dwelling place.

# General Information:

Parallelism is common in Hebrew poetry. (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/writing-poetry]] and [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-parallelism]])

# a psalm of the sons of Korah

"this is a psalm that the sons of Korah wrote"

# greatly to be praised

This can be stated in active from. AT: "people are to praise him greatly" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-activepassive]])

# the city of our God on his holy mountain

This is a reference to Jerusalem, which was built on Mount Zion.

# the city of our God

Possible meanings are 1) "the city where our God lives" or 2) "the city that belongs to our God"

# Beautiful in elevation

"Beautiful and high." The word "elevation" refers to how high mount Zion is.

# the joy of the whole earth, is Mount Zion

Here the word "earth" refers to everyone living on the earth. The word "joy" may be translated as a verb. AT: "Mount Zion gives joy to everyone on earth" or "everyone on earth rejoices because of Mount Zion" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metonymy]] and [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-abstractnouns]])

# on the sides of the north

Possible meanings are that this phrase 1) refers to the direction of the north or 2) is another name for Mount Zion meaning "the mountain of God."

# God has made himself known in her palaces as a refuge

The writer speaks of God as if he were a place where people can go for safety. AT: "God has made himself known as one who gives safety to the people in Mount Zion's palaces" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metaphor]])

# translationWords

* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/psalm]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/son]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/korah]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/yahweh]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/praise]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/god]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/holy]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/joy]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/earth]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/zion]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/king]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/know]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/palace]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/refuge]]