# Eliab's anger was kindled against David

Here anger is spoken of as if it were a fire that could be kindled. AT: "Eliab became angry with David" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metaphor]])

# Why did you come down here?

Eliab uses this question to show that he is angry that David came down. He was probably implying that David did not have a good reason for coming. AT: "You had no good reason to come here" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-rquestion]])

# With whom have you left those few sheep in the wilderness?

Eliab uses this question to insult David by making his work seem unimportant and by accusing him of not taking care of his father's sheep. AT: "You simply had the responsibility of watching over a few sheep in the wilderness. You could not even carry out that simple responsibility!" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-rquestion]])

# your pride, and the mischief in your heart

These two phrases mean basically the same thing and are combined for emphasis. (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-parallelism]])

# What have I done now? Was it not just a question?

David used these questions to express his frustration and to justify himself. AT: "I have done nothing wrong. I was only asking a question!" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-rquestion]])

# He turned away from him

"He" refers to David and the word "him" refers to Eliab.

# translationWords

* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/brother]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/angry]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/david]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/sheep]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/desert]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/proud]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/heart]]