# Woe to the land of the rustling of wings, which is along the rivers of Cush

Possible meanings of "the rustling of wings" are 1) the boats that have sails are spoken of as having wings. AT: "Woe to those who live in the land beyond the rivers of Cush, whose many ships look like insects on the water" or 2) the rustling of wings refers to the noise of insects that have wings, perhaps locusts. (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metaphor]])

# by the sea

The Nile River was very wide, and people in Egypt and Cush referred to it as "the sea." AT: "on the great river" or "along the Nile River" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metaphor]])

# vessels of papyrus

Papyrus is a tall plant that grows along the side of the Nile River. People bound together papyrus bundles to make boats. AT: "papyrus boats" or "boats made of reeds" or (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/translate-unknown]])

# a nation tall and smooth ... a people feared far and near ... a nation strong and trampling down, whose land the rivers divide

These phrases all describe the people of one nation.

# a nation tall and smooth

The word "nation" here refers to the people of that nation. AT: "a nation whose people are tall and have smooth skin" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metonymy]])

# a people feared far and near

The words "far" and "near" are used together to mean "everywhere." AT: "a people who are feared everywhere" or "a people that everyone in the earth fears" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-merism]])

# a nation strong and trampling down

Trampling down represents conquering other nations. AT: "a nation that is strong and conquers other nations" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metonymy]])

# the rivers divide

This probably refers to many rivers that flow through the nation so they divide it into different parts.

# translationWords

* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/woe]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/names/ethiopia]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/ambassador]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/water]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/nation]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/peoplegroup]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/fear]]