# General Information:

God uses a parable about a farmer in a vineyard in order to describe how he will punish a certain nation. That nation is either Ethiopia or Ethiopia's enemy.

# This is what Yahweh said to me

"Yahweh said to me." Here the word "me" refers to Isaiah.

# I will quietly observe from my home

What God will observe can be stated clearly. AT: "I will quietly observe that nation from my home" or "From my home, I will quietly watch what the people of that nation do" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-explicit]])

# like the simmering heat in sunshine, like a cloud of mist in the heat of harvest

These phrases show how quietly God will watch the nation. (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-simile]])

# Before the harvest

This is a harvest of grapes. This can be made explicit. AT: "Before the grape harvest" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-explicit]])

# when the blossoming is over

It can be stated clearly that this refers to blossoms on grape vines. AT: "when flowers have finished growing on the grape vines" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-explicit]])

# he will cut off the sprigs with pruning hooks

Yahweh will cut off the branches before the grapes can ripen. AT: "Yahweh will cut off the branches with knives before their produce fruit" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-explicit]])

# pruning hooks

A pruning hook is a knife that people use to cut branches off of vines or other plants.

# he will cut down and take away the spreading branches

Yahweh will throw away the branches in judgment.