# They said to him

"The men sent by Hezekiah said to Isaiah"

# like when a child is ready to be born, but the mother has no strength to give birth to her child

This comparison is made to emphasizes that they are in a time of extreme difficulty. AT: "It is as terrible as the day when a child is ready to be born, but the mother has no strength to give birth to her child" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-simile]])

# It may be Yahweh your God will hear the words

Hezekiah is indirectly suggesting that if the people pray Yahweh may listen and act upon what the chief commander had said. The full meaning of this statement can be made clear. AT: "Maybe if you pray to Yahweh your God will hear the message" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-explicit]])

# the chief commander

See how you translated this phrase in [Isaiah 36:2](../36/01.md).

# his master

This phrase means that the king is the chief commander's master.

# will rebuke the words which Yahweh your God has heard

Here the phrase "the words which Yahweh your God has heard" refers to what the king of Assyria had said. The full meaning of this statement can be made clear. AT: "Yahweh your God will rebuke the king of Assyria for what he has said" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-explicit]])

# lift up your prayer

Praying to Yahweh is described this way to emphasize that Yahweh is in heaven. A prayer is spoken of as if they were objects that could be lifted high into the sky. AT: "pray" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metaphor]])

# for the remnant that is still here

This refers to the people who are left in Jerusalem. AT: "for the few of us that are still here" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metonymy]])