# General Information:

This continues the king of Assyria's message to Hezekiah.

# See, you have heard

The word "see" here is used to add emphasis to what is said next. AT: "You have certainly heard"

# So will you be rescued?

The king of Assyria uses this question to ridicule Hezekiah and his army. This may be written as a statement. AT: "So you too will not be saved." or "So of course no one will rescue you either!" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-rquestion]])

# Have the gods of the nations rescued them ... Tel Assar?

The king of Assyria uses this question to ridicule Hezekiah and his army. This may be written as a statement. AT: "The nations' god did not rescue the nations that my fathers destroyed ... Tel Assar!" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-rquestion]])

# that my fathers destroyed

These men destroyed the cities listed by conquering them with their armies. Here the word "fathers" refers to his father and his other ancestors who were kings. AT: "that my fathers destroyed with their armies" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-synecdoche]])

# Gozan ... Haran ... Rezeph ... Eden ... Tel Assar ... Hena ... Ivvah

These are places that the Assyrians had conquered. (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/translate-names]])

# Where is the king ... Ivvah?

The king of Assyria uses this question to ridicule Hezekiah and his army. This may be written as a statement. AT: "We also conquered the king ... Ivvah!" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-rquestion]])

# Hamath ... Arpad ... Sepharvaim

Translate the names of these cities the same as you did in [Isaiah 36:19](../36/18.md). (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/translate-names]])