# sent a message

This means that he sent a messenger to give a message to the king. AT: "sent someone to give a message" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metonymy]])

# is the word that Yahweh has spoken

"is what Yahweh has said"

# laughs you to scorn

"laughs at you" or "makes fun of you"

# shakes her head

This is a gesture of scorn. (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/translate-symaction]])

# The virgin daughter of Zion ... the daughter of Jerusalem

These are idioms. Both of these phrases have the same meaning. The "daughter" of a city means the people who live in the city. See how you translated a similar phrase in [Isaiah 1:8](../01/07.md). AT: "The people of Zion ... the people of Jerusalem" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-idiom]])

# Whom have you defied and insulted? ... Against the Holy One of Israel.

Yahweh uses these rhetorical questions to ridicule the king of Assyria. These can be written as statements. AT: "You have defied and insulted Yahweh, you have shouted at and acted pridefully against the Holy One of Israel!" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-rquestion]])

# have you exalted your voice

This refers to speaking loudly as if the person's voice were an object that they lifted high. AT: "have you shouted" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metaphor]])

# lifted up your eyes in pride

This is an idiom that means to look at something pridefully, considering yourself more important that you should. AT: "looked at pridefully" or "acted pridefully" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-idiom]])

# translationWords

* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/isaiah]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/amoz]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/hezekiah]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/israel]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/pray]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/king]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/assyria]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/word]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/virgin]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/zion]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/jerusalem]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/exalt]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/voice]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/proud]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/holyone]]