# General Information:

This continues Yahweh's message to the king of Assyria.

# By your servants

This refers to to the servants that he had sent to Hezekiah with a message. This can be stated clearly. AT: "In the messages you sent with your servants" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-explicit]])

# I have gone ... I will cut ... I will enter ... I have dug ... I dried ... my feet

Here Sennacherib speaks of himself conquering many things. He is actually conquering them with the armies and chariots that he commands. AT: "We have gone ... We will cut ... we will enter ... We have dug ... we dried ... our feet" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-synecdoche]])

# its tall cedars

"Lebanon's tall cedars"

# its most fruitful forest

Here the word "fruitful" refers to the forest being dense and full of healthy trees. The understood information may be supplied. AT: "and into its most fruitful forest" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-ellipsis]])

# I dried up all the rivers of Egypt under the soles of my feet

Here Sennachrib is exaggerating his conquest and travels across the rivers of Egypt by claiming to have dried up the rivers when he marched his army through them. AT: "I have marched through all the rivers of Egypt as if they were dry under my feet" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-hyperbole]])

# translationWords

* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/servant]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/lord]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/chariot]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/names/lebanon]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/cedar]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/fir]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/names/egypt]]