# General Information:

This continues Yahweh's message to the king of Assyria.

# Have you not heard how ... times?

Yahweh uses this rhetorical question to remind Sennacherib of information that he should already be aware of. This can be written as a statement. AT: "Certainly you have heard how ... times." (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-rquestion]])

# You are here to reduce impregnable cities into heaps of ruins

Yahweh had planned for Sennacherib's army to destroy the cities that they had destroyed. This can be stated clearly. AT: "I planned that your army would destroy cities and cause them to become piles of rubble" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-explicit]])

# impregnable

strong and heavily guarded

# of little strength

"who are weak"

# shattered

"discouraged"

# I am bringing it to pass

The idiom "to bring something to pass" means to cause a specific thing to happen. AT: "I am causing it to happen" or "I am causing these things to take place" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-idiom]])

# They are plants in the field, green grass, the grass on the roof or in the field, before the east wind

This speaks of how weak and vulnerable the cities are before the Assryian army by comparing the cities to grass. AT: "The cities are as weak as the grass in the fields before your armies. They are as weak as the grass that grows on the roofs of houses and is scorched by the hot east wind" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metaphor]])

# before the east wind

The east wind is hot and dry from the desert and plants die when it blows.