# General Information:

This continues Yahweh's message to the king of Assyria.

# But I know your sitting down, your going out, your coming in

This refers to all activities of life. AT: "I know everything you do" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-merism]])

# and your raging against me

The word "raging" can be expressed as a verb. AT: "how you rage against me" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-abstractnouns]])

# your arrogance

Here the king's "arrogance" refers to his arrogant speech. AT: "your arrogant speech" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metonymy]])

# your arrogance has reached my ears

This speaks of Yahweh hearing the king's speech as if the king's speech were something that traveled to his ear. AT: "I have heard you speaking arrogantly" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metaphor]])

# I will put my hook in your nose, and my bit in your mouth

A person uses a hook and bit to lead an animal around. This speaks of Yahweh controlling the king as if the king were an animal Yahweh controlled with a bit and hook. AT: "I will control you like a man controls his animal by place a hook in its nose and a bit in its mouth" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metaphor]])

# I will turn you back the way you came

This refers to causing the king to return to his own home country. The meaning of this can be made clear. AT: "I will force you to return to your own country" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-explicit]])

# translationWords

* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/rage]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/arrogant]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/turn]]