# The seeds that fell among the thorns

Jesus speaks of what happens to the seeds as if he were speaking about the seeds themselves. AT: "What happens to the seeds that fell among the thorns" or "The part of the parable about the seeds that fell among the thorns" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metonymy]])

# are people who

Jesus speaks of the seeds showing something about people as if the seeds were the people. AT: "show what happens to people who" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metonymy]])

# they are choked ... pleasures of this life

This can be stated in active form. AT: "the cares and riches and pleasures of this life choke them" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-activepassive]])

# cares

"the things that people worry about"

# pleasures of this life

"the things in this life that people enjoy"

# they are choked by ... pleasures of this life

This metaphor refers to the way weeds cut off light and nutrients from plants and keep them from growing. AT: "as weeds prevent good plants from growing, the cares, riches, and pleasures of this life keep these people from becoming mature" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metaphor]])

# their fruit does not mature

"they do not bear ripe fruit." Mature fruit is a metaphor for good works. AT: "so like a plant does not produce mature fruit, they do not produce good works" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metaphor]])

# the seed that fell on the good soil

Jesus speaks of what happens to the seeds as if he were speaking about the seeds themselves. AT: "What happens to the seeds that fell on the good soil" or "The part of the parable about the seeds that fell on the good soil" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metonymy]])

# are the ones who

Jesus speaks of the seeds showing something about people as if the seeds were the people. AT: "show what happens to people who" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metonymy]])

# bear fruit with patient endurance

"produce fruit by enduring patiently" or "produce fruit by continued effort." Fruit is a metaphor for good works. AT: "like healthy plants that produce good fruit, they produce good works by persevering" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metaphor]])

# translationWords

* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/word]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/fruit]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/heart]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/perseverance]]