# General Information:

Parallelism is common in Hebrew poetry. (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/writing-poetry]] and [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-parallelism]])

# A psalm of David

Possible meanings are 1) David wrote the psalm or 2) the psalm is about David or 3) the psalm is in the style of David's psalms. See how you translated this in [Psalms 3:1](../003/001.md).

# crying out

"asking you for help"

# come quickly to me

The psalmist speaks as if Yahweh were a person who needed to come from another place to help him. What the psalmist wanted Yahweh to do can be stated clearly. AT: "come quickly to help me" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-personification]] and [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-explicit]])

# Listen to me when I call

"Please hear me when I call" or "I beg you to hear me when I call"

# May my prayer be like incense

The psalmist asks Yahweh to accept and be pleased with his prayer the way he would accept and be pleased with incense. AT: "May the my prayer please you the way the sweet smell of incense pleases people" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-simile]])

# my prayer

The psalmist wants Yahweh to be pleased with him because he is praying and because of the words of his prayer. (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metonymy]])

# my lifted hands

"the hands that I have lifted up." Lifted hands are a metonym for prayer. People lifted their hands when they prayed or praised Yahweh. See how you translated "lift up your hands" in [Psalms 134:2](../134/001.md).

# be like the evening sacrifice

The means to be like the animal that was burned on the altar in the evening. The psalmist speaks as if he wants Yahweh to be as pleased with him as he is with those who bring animals to sacrifice. He wants Yahweh to be pleased because the psalmist is praying or because of the words of his prayer. (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-simile]])

# translationWords

* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/psalm]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/david]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/yahweh]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/call]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/pray]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/incense]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/sacrifice]]