# By his breath he made the skies clear

The noun "breath" can be translated with the verb "breathe" or "blow." This image represents God causing the wind to blow away the clouds. AT: "God blew away the clouds so that the skies were clear" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metaphor]])

# his hand pierced the fleeing serpent

It is implied that God his holding a sword, and here "his hand" represents that sword. Also, "pierced" represents killing. AT: "With his sword he pierced the fleeing serpent" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-explicit]] and [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metonymy]])

# the fleeing serpent

"the serpent as it was trying to escape from him." This refers to Rahab, the monster in the sea. See [Job 26:12](./11.md).

# See, these are but the fringes of his ways

Here "fringes" represents a small part that we can see of something that is much bigger. AT: "See, these things that God has done show only a small part of his great power" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metaphor]])

# how small a whisper do we hear of him!

This is an exclamation that expresses Job's amazement of all the great things that God does that we do not even know about. Seeing what God does is spoken of as hearing God's voice. AT: "it is as if we heard only his quiet whisper!" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-exclamations]] and [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metaphor]]).

# Who can understand the thunder of his power?

The "thunder of his power" represents God's greatness. Job uses this question to emphasize that God's power is so great that no one can understand it. AT: "The thunder displays the greatness of his power which no one can understand!" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-rquestion]] and [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metaphor]])