# Ben Hadad

The name of the king of Aram. His name means "son of Hadad." (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/translate-names]])

# attacked Samaria

The king and his army attacked Samaria. AT: "they attacked Samaria" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-synecdoche]])

# Behold

The word "behold" here alerts us to pay attention to the surprising information that follows.

# a donkey's head was sold for

This can be stated in active form. AT: "a donkey's head cost" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-activepassive]])

# eighty pieces of silver

"80 pieces of silver" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/translate-numbers]])

# the fourth part of a kab

This can be written in modern measurements. AT: "a fourth part of a liter" or "a quarter of a liter" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/translate-bvolume]])

# the fourth part

"the 4th part." This is one part out of four equal parts. (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/translate-fraction]])

# dove's dung for

It is understood that this refers to the cost of the dung. AT: "dove's dung was sold for" or "dove's dung cost" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-ellipsis]])

# was passing by on the wall

"walking on top of the city wall"

# my master

The woman referred to the king by this name to show him respect.

# translationWords

* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/king]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/aram]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/samaria]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/famine]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/donkey]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/silver]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/dove]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/dung]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/kingdomofisrael]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/lord]]