# The king sent a man from before him

"To be before the king" means to be one of his servants. AT: "The king of Israel sent one of his servants as a messenger" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-idiom]])

# when the messenger came to Elisha, he said to the elders

Here Elisha is speaking to the elders right before the king's messenger arrived. AT: "when the messenger had almost arrived, Elisha said to the elders" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-explicit]])

# See how this son of a murderer has sent to take away my head?

Elisha uses this rhetorical question to draw attention to the kings messenger and to insult the king. This can be written as a statement. AT: "See, this son of a murderer has sent someone to remove my head!" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-rquestion]])

# son of a murderer

This means that the king of Israel has the characteristics of a murderer. AT: "this man who is like a murderer" or "that murderer" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-idiom]])

# has sent to

It is understood that he sent a person. AT: "has sent someone to" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-ellipsis]])

# to take away my head

This means to behead him. AT: "to cut off my head" or "to behead me" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-euphemism]])

# Look, when

Elisha uses this word here to draw the elder's attention to what he says next. AT: "Listen to what I want you to do: when"

# hold the door shut against him

If a door is shut against someone it means that it is closed and that they may not enter through it. AT: "hold the door shut so that he cannot come in" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-idiom]])

# Is not the sound of his master's feet behind him?

Elisha uses this question to assure the elders that the king is coming not far behind him. This rhetorical question may be written as a statement. AT: "The sound of his master's feet is right behind him." or "The king will be coming along soon after he arrives." (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-rquestion]])

