# General Information:

In 28:12-28, wisdom and understanding are spoken of as if they were precious objects that are in some place and people want to find them. Finding wisdom and understanding represents becoming wise and learning to understand things well. (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metaphor]])

# Where will wisdom be found? Where is the place of understanding?

These questions mean the same thing and are used to show that it is very difficult to find wisdom and understanding. AT: "It is very difficult to find wisdom and understanding." (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-parallelism]] and [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-rquestion]])

# Where will wisdom be found? Where is the place of understanding

Becoming wise and understanding is spoken of as finding wisdom and understanding. AT: "How do people become wise? How do people learn to understand things well" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metaphor]])

# Man does not know its price

Possible meanings are 1) wisdom is spoken of as if it were something that people can buy. AT: "People do not know what it is worth" or 2) the word translated as "price" means "place." AT: "People do not know where it is" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metaphor]])

# neither is it found in the land of the living

"and it is not found in the land of the living." The "land of the living" refers to this world where people live. This can be stated in active form. AT: "and no one can find wisdom in this world" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-activepassive]])

# The deep waters ... say, 'It is not in me'; the sea says, 'It is not with me.'

The deep waters and the sea are presented as if they are people that can speak. AT: "Wisdom is not in the deep waters under the earth, nor is it in the sea" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-personification]])

# translationWords

* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/wise]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/understand]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/life]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/water]]