# but educated in this city at the feet of Gamaliel

This can be stated in active form. AT: "but I was a student of rabbi Gamaliel here in Jerusalem" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-activepassive]])

# at the feet of Gamaliel

Here "feet" stands for the place where a student would sit while learning from a teacher. AT: "by Gamaliel" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metonymy]])

# Gamaliel

Gamaliel was one of the most prominent teachers of the Jewish law. See how you translated this name in [Acts 5:34](../05/33.md).

# I was instructed according to the strict ways of the law of our fathers

This can be stated in active form. AT: "He instructed me how to carefully obey every law of our forefathers" or "The instruction I received followed the exact details of the law of our forefathers" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-activepassive]])

# law of our fathers

"law of our ancestors." This refers to the law that God gave to the people of Israel through Moses.

# I am zealous for God

"I am completely dedicated to obeying God" or "I am passionate about my service to God"

# just as all of you are today

"in the same way all of you are today." Paul compares himself with the crowd.

# I persecuted this Way

Here "this Way" represents the people who belonged to the group called "the Way." AT: "I persecuted the people who belonged to this Way" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metonymy]])

# this Way

This was a term used to refer to Christianity. See how you translated "the Way" in [Acts 9:2](../09/01.md).

# to the death

The word "death" can be translated with the verb "kill" or "die." AT: "and I looked for ways to kill them" or "and I even caused them to die" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-abstractnouns]])

# binding up and delivering them to prison both men and women

"tying up both men and women and putting them in prison"

# can bear witness

"can testify" or "can tell you"

# I received letters from them

"The high priests and elders gave me letters"

# for the brothers in Damascus

Here "brothers" refers to "fellow Jews."

# to bring them back in bonds to Jerusalem

"They ordered me to bind with chains those of the Way and bring them back to Jerusalem"

# in order for them to be punished

This can be stated in active form. AT: "in order that they may receive punishment" or "in order that the Jewish authorities could punish them" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-activepassive]])