# Connecting Statement:

Paul finishes telling what had happened to him in Damascus. He quotes what Ananias said to him. This is still part of his speech to the crowd in Jerusalem.

# General Information:

The word "he" refers to Ananias. (See: [Acts 22:12](./12.md))

# his will

"what God is planning and will cause to happen"

# to hear the voice coming from his own mouth

Both "voice" and "mouth" refer to the one speaking. AT: "to hear him speak directly to you" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-synecdoche]])

# to all men

Here "men" means all people whether male or female. AT: "to all people" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-gendernotations]])

# Now

Here "now" does not mean "at this moment," but is used to draw attention to the important point that follows.

# why are you waiting?

This question was asked to exhort Paul to be baptized. AT: "Do not wait!" or "Do not delay!" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-rquestion]])

# be baptized

This can be stated in active form. AT: "let me baptize you" or "receive baptism" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-activepassive]])

# wash away your sins

As washing one's body removes dirt, calling on the name of Jesus for forgiveness cleanses one's inner being from sin. AT: "ask forgiveness for your sins" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metaphor]])

# calling on his name

Here "name" refers to the Lord. AT: "calling on the Lord" or "trusting in the Lord"

# translationWords

* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/god]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/father]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/willofgod]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/righteous]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/voice]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/testimony]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/baptize]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/sin]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/call]]