# General Information:

Here the words "him" and the first two words "he" refer to Paul. The word "He" and the last "he" refer to the chief captain.

# Away with such a fellow from the earth

The phrase "from the earth" adds emphasis to "Away with such a fellow." AT: "Kill him"

# As they were

"While they were." The phrase "As they were" is used to mark two events that are happening at the same time.

# throwing off their cloaks, and throwing dust into the air

These actions show that the Jews there are outraged because they feel Paul has spoken against God. (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/translate-symaction]])

# chief captain

a Roman military officer or leader of about 600 soldiers

# commanded Paul to be brought

This can be stated in active form. AT: "ordered his soldiers to bring Paul" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-activepassive]])

# the fortress

This fortress was connected to the outer temple court. See how you translated this in [Acts 21:34](../21/34.md).

# He ordered that he should be questioned with scourging

The commander wants Paul tortured by whipping him to ensure he tells the truth. This can be stated in active form. AT: "He ordered his soldiers to whip Paul to force him to tell the truth" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-activepassive]] and [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-explicit]])

# that he himself

The word "himself" is used for emphasis. (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-rpronouns]])

# translationWords

* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/command]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/paul]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/stronghold]]