# General Information:

Yahweh is talking about Judah and Israel.

# may Judah not become guilty

God knows how sinful Israel has become and does not want Judah to do the same thing.

# Do not go to Gilgal, you people; do not go up to Beth Aven

The people of Judah are being warned not to go to the cities of Gilgal or Beth Aven to worship idols in those places. Gilgal was once a place where Yahweh had been worshiped, but it had become a place of idol worship.

# Beth Aven

This was a city on the border between the northern kingdom of Israel and the tribe of Benjamin in the southern kingdom. (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/translate-names]])

# like a stubborn heifer

Israel is compared to a young cow that will not obey its master. (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-simile]])

# How can Yahweh bring them to pasture like lambs in a meadow?

Yahweh uses a question to emphasize that he cannot continue to take care of the people because they are stubborn. Yahweh no longer taking care of his people is spoken of as if he were a shepherd that could not take his lambs into the field to eat because they are stubborn. AT: "Yahweh will not shepherd a rebellious people." or "Therefore Yahweh will not continue to take care of them." (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metaphor]] and [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-rquestion]])

# How can Yahweh

Here Yahweh is speaking of himself in the third person. It can be stated in the first person. AT: "How can I" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-123person]])

# translationWords

* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/israel]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/adultery]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/judah]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/guilt]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/gilgal]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/peoplegroup]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/oath]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/yahweh]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/life]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/stiffnecked]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/heifer]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/lamb]]