# No one is ruler over his breath so as to stop the breath ... no one has power over the day of his death

Just as no one has the ability to stop himself from breathing, no one can continue living when it is time to die. (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-simile]])

# No one is ruler

The word "ruler" can be expressed as a verb. AT: "No one has control"

# the day of his death

This is an idiom. AT: "when he will die" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-idiom]])

# No one is discharged from the army

This can be translated in active form. AT: "No army discharges anyone" or "No army allows soldiers to leave" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-activepassive]])

# wickedness will not rescue those who are its slaves

This speaks of wickedness as if it were a master who had slaves. AT: "evil people will not be saved by doing what is evil" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-personification]])

# I have applied my heart

Here the author refers to himself by his "heart" to emphasize his feelings. See how you translated this in [Ecclesiastes 1:17](../01/16.md). AT: "I applied myself" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-synecdoche]])

# every kind of work that is done

This can be stated in active form. AT: "every kind of work that people do" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-activepassive]])

# under the sun

This refers to things that are done on earth. See how you translated this in [Ecclesiastes 1:3](../01/01.md). AT: "on the earth" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-idiom]])

# There is a time when a person oppresses another person to that person's hurt

"Sometimes one person will oppress another, causing that person to be hurt"

# translationWords

* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/breath]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/power]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/death]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/evil]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/servant]]