# It happened

This phrase is used here to mark where the action starts. If your language has a way for doing this, you could consider using it here.

# in the fifth year of King Rehoboam

This refers to the fifth year of Rehoboam's reign as king. AT: "in the fifth year that Rehoboam was king" or "in year five of King Rehoboam's reign" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-explicit]] and [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/translate-ordinal]])

# Shishak, king of Egypt, came up against Jerusalem

"Shishak, king of Egypt" here is a metonym for Shishak along with the Egyptian army. AT: "Shishak, king of Egypt, and his army with him, came up against Jerusalem" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metonymy]])

# Shishak

This is the name of a man. (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/translate-names]])

# came up against

This is an idiom that means marched against or attacked. AT: "came to attack" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-idiom]])

# twelve hundred chariots and sixty thousand horsemen

"1,200 chariots and 60,000 horsemen" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/translate-numbers]])

# Soldiers without number

This exaggeration means that there were more soldiers than a person could easily count. AT: "Many soldiers" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-hyperbole]])

# Libyans, Sukkites, and Cushites

These are people from Libya, Sukki, and Ethiopia. The location of Sukki is uncertain, but it may be a region in Libya. (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/translate-names]] and [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/translate-unknown]])

# translationWords

* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/names/egypt]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/names/jerusalem]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/faithful]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/chariot]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/horsemen]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/names/ethiopia]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/names/kingdomofjudah]]