# first and last

"from beginning to end." These two words form a merism and refer to everything that Rehoboam did from the beginning of his reign to the end of his reign. AT: "everything that he did" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-merism]])

# are they not written ... Jeroboam?

This can be expressed in active form and assumes that the answer is positive. The question is rhetorical and is used for emphasis. It can be translated as a statement. AT: "they are written ... Jeroboam." or "you can read about them ... Jeroboam." (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-activepassive]] and [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-rquestion]])

# Shemaiah ... Iddo ... Abijah

These are the names of men. (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/translate-names]])

# the constant wars between Rehoboam and Jeroboam

The names of the kings represent the armies that they led. AT: "the wars in which Rehoboam's army and Jeroboam's army constantly engaged" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-synecdoche]])

# Rehoboam slept with his ancestors

Rehoboam dying is spoken of as if he had fallen asleep. AT: "Rehoboam died" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metaphor]] and [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-euphemism]])

# was buried in the city of David

This can be stated in active form. AT: "people buried him in the city of David" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-activepassive]])

# became king in his place

The phrase "in his place" is a metaphor meaning "instead of him." AT: "became king instead of Rehoboam" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metaphor]])

# translationWords

* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/prophet]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/rehoboam]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/jeroboam]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/bury]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/cityofdavid]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/king]]