# May peace be on this house

This was both a greeting and a blessing. Here "house" refers to those who live in the house. AT: "May the people in this household receive peace" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metonymy]])

# a person of peace

"a peaceful person." This is a person who wants peace with God and with people.

# your peace will rest upon him

Here "peace" is described as a living thing that can choose where to stay. AT: "he will have the peace you blessed him with" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-personification]])

# if not

It may be helpful to restate the entire phrase. AT: "if there is no person of peace there" or "if the owner of the house is not a peaceful person" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-ellipsis]])

# it will return to you

Here "peace" is described as a living thing that can choose to leave. AT: "you will have that peace" or "he will not receive the peace you blessed him with" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-personification]]) 

# Remain in that same house

Jesus was not saying that they should stay in the house all day, but that they should sleep at the same house every night they were there. AT: "Continue to sleep at that house"

# for the laborer is worthy of his wages

This is a general principle that Jesus was applying to the men he was sending out. Since they would be teaching and healing the people, the people should provide them with a place to stay and with food.

# Do not move around from house to house

Moving around from house to house means going to different houses. It can be made clear that he was talking about staying overnight at different houses. "Do not go sleep at a different house each night" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-idiom]] and [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-explicit]])

# translationWords

* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/house]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/peace]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/worthy]]