# and they do not receive you

"if the people of the city reject you"

# Even the dust from your town that clings to our feet we wipe off against you!

This is a symbolic action to show that they reject the people of the city. AT: "Just as you rejected us, we thoroughly reject you. We even reject the dust from your town that clings to our feet" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/translate-symaction]])

# we wipe off

Since Jesus was sending these people out in groups of two, it would be two people saying this. So languages that have a dual form of "we" would use it. (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-exclusive]])

# But know this: The kingdom of God has come near

The phrase "But know this" introduces a warning. It means "Even though you reject us, it does not change the fact that the kingdom of God is near!"

# The kingdom of God has come near

The abstract noun "kingdom" can be expressed with the verbs "reign" or "rule." See how you translated a similar sentence in [Luke 10:8](./08.md). AT: "God will soon rule everywhere as king" or "The proof that God is reigning is all around you" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-abstractnouns]])

# I say to you

Jesus was saying this to the 70 people he was sending out. He said this to show that he was about to say something very important.

# the judgment day

The disciples would have understood that this refers to the time of final judgment of sinners. (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-explicit]])

# it will be more tolerable for Sodom than for that town

"God will not judge Sodom as severely as he will judge that town." AT: "God will judge the people of that town more severely than he will judge the people of Sodom" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metonymy]])

# translationWords

* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/kingdomofgod]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/judgmentday]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/names/sodom]]