# Woe to you, Chorazin! Woe to you, Bethsaida!

Jesus spoke as if the people of the cities of Chorazin and Bethsaida were there listening to him, but they were not. (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-apostrophe]] and [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/translate-names]] and [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metonymy]])

# If the mighty works which were done in you had been done in Tyre and Sidon

Jesus is describing a situation that could have happened in the past but did not. AT: "If someone had performed the miracles for the people of Tyre and Sidon that I performed for you" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-hypo]] and [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-activepassive]])

# they would have repented long ago

"the wicked people who lived there would have shown that they were sorry for their sins"

# sitting in sackcloth and ashes

"wearing sackcloth and sitting in ashes"

# But it will be more tolerable for Tyre and Sidon at the judgment than for you

It may be helpful to clearly state the reason for their judgment. AT: "But because you did not repent and believe in me even though you saw me do miracles, God will judge you more severely than he will judge the people of Tyre and Sidon" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-explicit]] and [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metonymy]])

# at the judgment

"on that final day when God judges everyone"

# You, Capernaum

Jesus now speaks to the people in the city of Capernaum as if they were listening to him, but they were not. (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-apostrophe]] and [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metonymy]])

# do you think you will be exalted to heaven?

Jesus uses a question to rebuke the people of Capernaum for their pride. AT: "you will certainly not go up to heaven!" or "God will not honor you!" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-rquestion]] and [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-activepassive]])

# exalted to heaven

This expression means "greatly exalted."

# you will be brought down to Hades

This can be stated in active form. AT: "you will go down to Hades" or "God will send you to Hades" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-activepassive]])

# translationWords

* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/woe]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/mighty]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/works]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/tyre]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/sidon]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/repent]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/sackcloth]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/judge]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/capernaum]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/exalt]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/heaven]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/hades]]