# The seventy returned

Some languages will need to say that the seventy actually went out first as the UDB does. This is implicit information that can be made explicit. (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-explicit]])

# seventy

You may want to add a footnote: "Some versions have '72' instead of '70.'" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/translate-numbers]])

# in your name

Here "name" refers to Jesus' power and authority. (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metonymy]])

# I was watching Satan fall from heaven as lightning

Jesus used a simile to compare how God was defeating Satan when his 70 disciples were preaching in the towns to the way lightning strikes. (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-simile]])

# fall from heaven as lightning

Possible meanings are 1) fell as quickly as lighting strikes, or 2) fell down from heaven as lightning strikes downward. Since both meaning are possible, it may be best to keep the image.

# authority to tread on serpents, and scorpions

"authority to step on snakes and crush scorpions." Possible meanings are 1) this refers to actual snakes and scorpions or 2) snakes and scorpions are a metaphor for evil spirits. The UDB translates this as referring to evil spirits: "I have given you the right to attack evil spirits" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metaphor]])

# tread on serpents, and scorpions

This implies that they would do this and not be injured. AT: "walk on snakes and scorpions and they will not hurt you" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-ellipsis]])

# scorpions

Scorpions are small animals with two claws and a poisonous stinger on their tail.

# over all the power of the enemy

"I have given you authority to crush the power of the enemy" or "I have given you authority to defeat the enemy." The enemy is Satan. (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-ellipsis]] and [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-explicit]])

# do not rejoice only in this, that the spirits submit to you

"do not rejoice only because the spirits submit to you." This can also be stated in positive form. AT: "Rejoice that your names are written in heaven even more than you rejoice that the spirits submit to you!"

# your names are engraved in heaven

This can be stated in active form. AT: "God has written your names in heaven" or "your names are on the list of people who are citizens of heaven" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-activepassive]])

# translationWords

* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/joy]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/lordgod]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/demon]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/submit]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/name]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/satan]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/heaven]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/authority]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/serpent]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/power]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/adversary]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/rejoice]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/spirit]]