# Connecting Statement:

Jesus replies with a story to a Jewish teacher who wants to test Jesus. (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-parables]])

# Behold, a certain teacher

This alerts us to a new event and a new person in the story. (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/writing-newevent]] and [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/writing-participants]])

# test him

"challenge Jesus"

# What is written in the law? How do you read it?

Jesus is not seeking information. He uses these questions to test the Jewish teacher's knowledge. AT: "Tell me what Moses wrote in the law and what you think it means." (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-rquestion]])

# What is written in the law?

This can be asked in active form. AT: "What did Moses write in the law?" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-activepassive]])

# How do you read it?

"What have you read in it?" or "What do you understand it to say?"

# You will love ... neighbor as yourself

The man is quoting what Moses wrote in the law.

#  with all your heart, with all your soul, with all your strength, and with all your mind

Here "heart" and "soul" are metonyms for a person's inner being. These four phrases are used together to mean "completely" or "earnestly." (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metonymy]] and [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-doublet]])

# your neighbor as yourself

This simile can be stated more clearly. AT: "love your neighbor as much as you love yourself" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-simile]])

# translationWords

* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/teacher]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/lawofmoses]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/test]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/inherit]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/eternity]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/life]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/written]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/love]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/lord]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/heart]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/soul]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/strength]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/mind]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/neighbor]]