# But a certain Samaritan

This introduces a new person in the story without giving his name. We know only that he was from Samaria. (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/writing-participants]])

# a certain Samaritan

The Jews despised the Samaritans and would have assumed that he would not help the injured Jewish man. (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-explicit]])

# When he saw him

"When the Samaritan saw the injured man"

# he was moved with compassion

"he felt sorry for him"

# bound up his wounds, pouring oil and wine on them

He would have put the oil and wine on the wounds first. AT: "he put wine and oil on the wounds and wrapped them with cloth" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-events]])

# pouring oil and wine on them

Wine was used to clean the wound, and oil was probably used to prevent infection. This can be stated. AT: "pouring oil and wine on them to help heal them" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-explicit]])

# his own animal

"his own pack animal." This was an animal that he used to carry heavy loads. It was probably a donkey.

# two denarii

"two day's wages." "Denarii" is the plural of "denarius." (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/translate-bmoney]])

# the host

"the innkeeper" or "the person who took care of the inn"

# whatever extra you spend, when I return, I will repay you

This could be reordered. AT: "when I return, I will repay you whatever extra amount you spend"

# translationWords

* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/names/samaria]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/compassion]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/bond]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/oil]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/wine]]