# Connecting Statement:

This begins an account of the religious leaders trying to trap Jesus with several difficult questions. Here the Pharisees ask him about paying taxes to Caesar.

# how they might entrap Jesus in his own talk

"how they could cause Jesus to say something wrong so they could arrest him"

# their disciples ... Herodians

The disciples of the Pharisees supported paying taxes only to Jewish authorities. The Herodians supported paying taxes to the Roman authorities. It is implied that the Pharisees believed that no matter what Jesus said, he would offend one of these groups. (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-explicit]])

# Herodians

These were officials and followers of the Jewish king Herod. He was friends with Roman authorities. (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/translate-names]])

# you do not show partiality between people

"you do not show special honor to some people" or "you do not consider some people more important than other people"

# to pay taxes to Caesar

People did not pay taxes directly to Caesar but to one of his tax collectors. AT: "to pay the taxes that Caesar requires" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-explicit]])

# translationWords

* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/pharisee]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/disciple]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/teacher]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/true]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/partial]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/lawful]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/tax]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/caesar]]