# General Information:

Jesus quotes from the Psalms to show that the Christ is more than just "the son of David."

# How then does David in the Spirit call him Lord

Jesus uses a question to make the religious leaders think deeply about the Psalm he is about to quote. AT: "Then, tell me why David in the Spirit calls him Lord" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-rquestion]])

# David in the Spirit

"David, whom the Holy Spirit is inspiring." This means the Holy Spirit is influencing what David says.

# call him

Here "him" refers to the Christ, who is also the descendant of David.

# The Lord said

Here "Lord" refers to God the Father.

# to my Lord

Here "Lord" refers to the Christ. Also, "my" refers to David. This means the Christ is superior to David.

# at my right hand

Here "my" refers to God the Father. The "right hand" is often used to indicate a place of honor. When referring to God, since God has no physical body or hands, to sit at God’s “right hand” is an idiom that means that Christ will rule as God, with God’s authority. AT: "here in my place as we rule together as king." (See: rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-idiom)

# until I make your enemies your footstool

This is an idiom. AT: "until I conquer your enemies" or "until I make your enemies bow down before you" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-idiom]])

# translationWords

* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/names/david]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/holyspirit]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/lord]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/adversary]]

