# General Information:

Hosea the prophet is speaking.

# Yahweh's land

This expression signals that Yahweh continues to view the land of Israel as his property, not the property of the Israelites.

# unclean food

This is food that the Israelites would normally refuse to eat because it would make them unacceptable to Yahweh. (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metaphor]])

# Their sacrifices will be to them like mourners' food

Here "mourners' food" refers to what people would eat while they mourning because they were defiled and not acceptable to God. This means Yahweh will consider the people's sacrifices to be defiled and he will not accept them. (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-simile]])

# For their food will be for themselves only; it will not come into the house of Yahweh

The people of Israel will have food to eat, but Yahweh will not accept it as a sacrifice.

# it will not come into the house of Yahweh

The unclean food is spoken of as if it were able to go places by itself. Of course, people actually had to take it with them. (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-personification]])

# translationWords

* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/yahweh]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/names/ephraim]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/names/egypt]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/clean]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/names/assyria]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/wine]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/sacrifice]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/mourn]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/defile]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/houseofgod]]