# General Information:

Hosea the prophet is speaking.

# What will you do on the day of an appointed festival, on the day of a festival for Yahweh?

Hosea uses this question to emphasize that the people will no longer be able to observe their festivals when their enemies defeat them and take them captive. AT: "You will not be able to celebrate the festivals that Yahweh appointed for you." (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-rquestion]])

# the day of an appointed festival ... the day of a festival for Yahweh

Both of these mean the same thing. (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-parallelism]])

# if they escape

Here "they" still refers to the people of Israel. You can continue stating this is second person. AT: "if you escape" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-123person]])

# Egypt will gather them, and Memphis will bury them

Egypt and Memphis refer to the people who live there. AT: "the army of Egypt will capture you. You will die there, and the people in the city of Memphis will bury you" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metonymy]])

# As for their treasures of silver—sharp briers will possess them

Briers growing in the places where Israelites stored their silver is spoken of as if the briers were human enemies that would take the Israelite's precious possessions for themselves. AT: "Sharp briers will grow where they store their treasures of silver" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metaphor]])

# sharp briers will possess them, and thorns will fill their tents

Here "sharp briers" and "thorns" mean the same thing. To have briers and thorns growing represents a land that has become desolate and like a wilderness. (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-doublet]] and [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metonymy]])

# their tents

Here "tents" represents the Israelites' homes. (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metonymy]])

# translationWords

* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/appoint]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/festival]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/yahweh]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/names/egypt]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/names/memphis]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/bury]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/silver]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/tent]]