# General Information:

Hosea the prophet is speaking.

# The days for punishment are coming; the days for retribution are coming

Hosea says these two similar phrases to emphasize that Yahweh will soon judge the people of Israel for their evil deeds. (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-parallelism]])

# The prophet is a fool, and the inspired man is insane

These phrases mean basically the same thing. Possible meanings are 1) that the people regarded the prophets as madmen or 2) that the prophets had become crazy because of the sins that the people had committed. (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-parallelism]])

# The prophet is a fool, and the inspired man is insane

Here "prophet" and "inspired man" both mean a person who claims to receive messages from God. It is implied that these people are false prophets and only thought they received messages from God. (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-doublet]] and [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-explicit]])

# because of your great iniquity and great hostility

The phrases "great iniquity" and "great hostility" share similar meanings. The iniquity of the people manifested itself in hostility towards Yahweh and his prophets. (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-doublet]])

# translationWords

* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/punish]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/israel]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/know]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/prophet]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/foolish]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/iniquity]]