# General Information:

Ezekiel continues to tell about the vision that he saw.

# he said to me

If your language has to identify the one speaking, it would be best to identify the speaker as the "one who looked like a man" ([Ezekiel 1:26](../01/26.md)). It was not "the Spirit."

# the house of Israel

The word "house" is a metonym for the family that lives in the house, in this case the Israelites, the descendants of Jacob over many years. See how you translated this in [Ezekiel 3:1](./01.md). AT: "the Israelites" or "the Israelite people group" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metonymy]])

# of strange speech or a difficult language

"who speak a strange or difficult language"

# not to many peoples of strange speech

"I am not sending you to a mighty nation whose people speak a strange language"

# if I sent you to them, they would have listened to you

This is a hypothetical situation that could have happened but did not. Yahweh did not send Ezekiel to people who did not understand his language. (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-hypo]])

# if I sent you to them

The word "them" refers to a mighty nation other than Israel.

# strong browed and hard hearted

These mean basically the same thing. AT: "very rebellious" or "very stubborn" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-doublet]])

# strong browed

This is an idiom. AT: "unwilling to change" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-idiom]])

# hard hearted

This phrase suggests that the people resist God and are unwilling to obey him. The heart is used to describe the place in the body where a person decides what they want to do. See how you translated this in [Ezekiel 2:4](../02/04.md). (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metaphor]])

# translationWords

* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/word]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/send]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/peoplegroup]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/mighty]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/nation]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/hard]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/heart]]