# General Information:

Ezekiel seems to have been angry because Yahweh had sent him to speak to the Israelite exiles, thus rebelling against Yahweh himself. Though he was supposed to speak to them, he sat in silence for seven days, even though he could feel the anger of Yahweh "powerfully pressing on" him.

# away, and I went with bitterness in my spirit's rage

The words "bitterness" and "rage" are types of anger. This can be stated as a separate sentence. AT: "away. I was bitter and my spirit was full of anger" or "away. I was very bitter and angry"

# bitterness

Ezekiel speaks of his anger at Yahweh as if there were a bad taste in his mouth because Yahweh had forced him to eat something that tasted bad. (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metaphor]])

# for the hand of Yahweh was powerfully pressing on me

Ezekiel speaks of being sad and tired because Yahweh had commanded him to do things he did not want to do as if Yahweh were pushing him down into the ground. (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metaphor]])

# the hand of Yahweh

Possible meanings are 1) the word "hand" is often used to refer to someone's power or action, AT: "the power of Yahweh," or 2) Ezekiel knew that Yahweh was angry with him because he was not obeying Yahweh by speaking to the Israelite exiles. (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metonymy]])

# Tel Aviv

A town in Babylon, about 80 kilometers southeast of the main city, which was also called Babylon. (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/translate-names]])

# the Kebar Canal

This is a river that people in Chaldea had dug to give water to their gardens. See how you translated this in [Ezekiel 1:1](../01/01.md).

# overwhelmed in amazement

"unable to do anything because I was so amazed"

# translationWords

* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/holyspirit]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/hand]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/yahweh]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/captive]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/amazed]]