# You have seen everything that Yahweh did before your eyes

Yahweh expected them to remember what Yahweh had done and they had seen it. Here the "eyes" represent the whole person and emphasize what the person has seen. AT: "You have seen all that Yahweh did so that you would see and remember what he did" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-synecdoche]])

# the great sufferings that your eyes saw

Here "eyes" emphasizes that Yahweh expected them to remember that they had seen it. AT: "you saw for yourselves that the people suffered terribly" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-synecdoche]])

# your eyes

Moses speaks to the Israelites as if they were one man, so the word "your" here is singular. (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-you]])

# the signs, and those great wonders

The words "signs" and "wonders" both refer to the plagues that Yahweh had sent upon Egypt. AT: "and all of the powerful things that Yahweh did" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-doublet]])

# Yahweh has not given you a heart to know, eyes to see, or ears to hear

The people do have hearts, eyes, and ears. This metonym says that Yahweh has not enabled them to understand from what they saw and heard who Yahweh is, and how and why they should obey him. (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metonymy]])

# given you a heart to know

This is an idiom. AT: "enabled you to understand" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-idiom]])

# translationWords

* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/names/moses]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/call]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/israel]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/names/egypt]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/names/pharaoh]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/servant]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/suffer]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/miracle]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/heart]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/know]]