# The generation to come, your children who will rise up after you

The words "your children ... after you" tell who "the generation to come" is.

# the plagues on this land and the diseases with which Yahweh has made it sick

"how God cursed the land of Canaan with plagues and disease"

# when they see that the whole land has become sulfur and burning salt

People put sulfur and salt on the soil to keep anything from growing. "when they see that Yahweh has burned the land with sulfur and salt"

# where nothing is sown or bears fruit

This can be stated in active form. AT: "where no one can sow seed and the crops do not bear fruit" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-activepassive]])

# like the overthrow of Sodom and Gomorrah

The abstract noun "overthrow" can be translated as a clause. AT: "as when Yahweh completely destroyed Sodom and Gomorrah"

# Admah and Zeboyim

These are names of cities that Yahweh destroyed along with Sodom and Gomorrah. (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/translate-names]])

# in his anger and wrath

The abstract nouns "anger" and "wrath" mean basically the same thing and can be translated as an adjective phrase. AT: "when he was very angry" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-doublet]])

# they will say together with all the other nations ... mean?

This can be translated as an indirect quotation. AT: "they will ask with all the other nations why Yahweh has done this to the land, and what the heat of this great anger means." (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-quotations]])

# they will say together with all the other nations

"your descendants and the people of all the other nations will say"

# What does the heat of this great anger mean?

The writer is communicating one idea through two words. AT: "What does this terrible anger mean?" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-hendiadys]])