# surrounding the temple area

"entirely around the temple area"

# Each long cubit was a cubit and a handbreadth in length

Each "long cubit" was about 54 centimeters. You may choose not to include this information if you give modern measurements instead of "cubits" as the UDB does. AT: "These were the long cubits, which were the length of a regular cubit plus a handbreadth" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/translate-bdistance]])

# handbreadth

"the width of a hand." This was about 8 centimeters. (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/translate-bdistance]])

# one stick

"it was one stick wide." This was about 3.2 meters.

# the temple gate that faced east

This gate was part of the wall that surrounded the temple area. It was not part of the temple building itself. AT: "the gate on the eastern side of the wall surrounding the temple" or "the gate on the eastern wall of the temple courtyard"

# up its steps

"up the steps of the gate"

# in depth

"from the front edge of the threshold to its back edge"

# The guard chambers

These were rooms that were built inside of the gate where guards stayed to protect the gate.

# five cubits

about 2.7 meters (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/translate-bdistance]])

# there were five cubits between any two of the chambers

"the chambers next to each other were five cubits apart" or "there were five cubits between a chamber and the one next to it"

# the chambers

"the rooms"

# portico

This was a covering in front of an entrance with columns or posts for support. See how you translated this in [Ezekiel 8:16](../08/16.md).