# Connecting Statement:

As Jesus continues teaching the people he begins to tell a story. It is about a rich man and Lazarus.

# General Information:

These verses give background information about the story Jesus begins to tell about the rich man and Lazarus. (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/writing-background]])

# Now

This marks a shift in Jesus' speech as he begins to tell a story that will help people understand what he was teaching them.

# a certain rich man

This phrase introduces a person in Jesus' story. It is not clear if this was a real person, or simply a story that Jesus told in order to make a point. (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/writing-participants]])

# who was clothed in purple and fine linen

"who wore clothing made with fine linen and purple dye" or "who wore very expensive clothes." Purple dye and fine linen cloth were very expensive.

# was enjoying every day his great wealth

"enjoyed eating expensive food every day" or "spent much money and bought whatever he desired"

# A certain beggar named Lazarus was laid at his gate

This can be stated in active form. AT: "People had laid a certain beggar named Lazarus at his gate" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-activepassive]] and [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/translate-names]])

# A certain beggar named Lazarus

This phrase introduces another person in Jesus' story. It is not clear if this was a real person, or simply a story that Jesus told in order to make a point. (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/writing-participants]])

# at his gate

"at the gate to the rich man's house" or "at the entrance to the rich man's property"

# covered with sores

"with sores all over his body"

# longing to eat what fell

"he wished he could eat the scraps of food that fell"

# Even the dogs came

The word "Even" here shows that what follows is worse than what has already been told about Lazarus. AT: "In addition to that, the dogs came" or "Worse yet, the dogs came"

# dogs

The Jews considered dogs to be unclean animals. Lazarus was too sick and weak to stop the dogs from licking his wounds.