# Connecting Statement:

Jesus finishes telling the story about the rich man and Lazarus.

# They have Moses and the prophets

It is implied that Abraham refused to send Lazarus to the rich man's brothers. This could be stated. AT: "No, I will not do that, because your brothers have what Moses and the prophets wrote long ago" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-explicit]])

# Moses and the prophets

This refers to their writings. AT: "what Moses and the prophets wrote" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metonymy]])

# let them listen to them

"your brothers should pay attention to Moses and the prophets"

# if someone would go to them from the dead ones

This describes a situation that has not happened, but that the rich man would like to happen. AT: "if a person who has died would go to them" or "if someone who has died would go and warn them" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-hypo]])

# If they do not listen to Moses and the prophets

Here "Moses and the prophets" represent the things that they wrote. AT: "If they do not pay attention to what Moses and the prophets wrote" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metonymy]])

# neither will they be persuaded if someone rises from the dead ones

Abraham states what would happen if the hypothetical situation occurred. It can be stated in active form. AT: "neither will a person who comes back from the dead be able to convince them" or "they will not believe even if a person comes back from the dead" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-hypo]] and [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-activepassive]])

# translationWords

* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/moses]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/prophet]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/repent]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/raise]]