# Your right hand, Yahweh, is glorious in power

Moses speaks of God as if God had hands. The right hand refers to God's power or the things God does powerfully. AT: "Yahweh, your power is glorious" or "Yahweh, what you do is glorious in power" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metonymy]])

# your right hand, Yahweh, has shattered the enemy

Moses speaks of God as if God had hands. The right hand refers to God's power. AT: "Yahweh, your power has shattered the enemy" or "Yahweh, by your power you have shattered the enemy" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metonymy]])

# has shattered the enemy

Moses speaks of the enemy as if it were fragile and could be shattered like glass or pottery. AT: "has completely destroyed the enemy" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metaphor]])

# those who rose up against you

Rebelling against God is spoken of as rising up against him. AT: "those who rebelled against you" or "your enemies" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metaphor]])

# You sent out your wrath

Moses speaks of God's wrath as if it were a servant that God sent out to do something. AT: "You showed your wrath" or "You acted according to your wrath" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-personification]])

# it consumed them like stubble

Moses speaks of God's wrath as if it were fire that could completely burn up things. His enemies were completely destroyed like stubble in a fire. AT: "it completely destroyed your enemies like a fire that burns up straw" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metaphor]] and [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-simile]])

# By the blast of your nostrils

Moses speaks of God as if God had a nose, and he speaks of the wind as if God blew the wind from his nose. AT: "You blew on the sea and" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-personification]])