# my desire will be satisfied on them

This can be expressed with an active form. AT: "I will satisfy my desire on them" or "I will take all I want from them" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-activepassive]])

# my hand will destroy them

The enemies speak of destroying the Israelites by the power of their hands as if it were their hands that would destroy them. AT: "I will destroy them with my hand" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metonymy]])

# But you blew with your wind

Moses spoke about God making the wind blow as if God blew the wind through his nose or mouth. AT: "But you made the wind blow" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metaphor]])

# sank like lead in the mighty waters

Lead is a heavy metal that is commonly used to make things sink in water. The word "lead" here is used to show how fast God's enemies were destroyed. AT: "sank as fast as lead in the deep turbulent waters" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-simile]])

# Who is like you, Yahweh, among the gods?

Moses uses this question to show how great God is. AT: "O Yahweh, no one is like you among the gods!" or "Yahweh, none of the gods is like you!" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-rquestion]])

# Who is like you, ... doing miracles?

Moses uses this question to show how great God is. AT: No one is like you. No one is majestic in holiness as you are, no one is honored in praises as you are, and no one does miracles as you do!" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-rquestion]])

# translationWords

* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/sword]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/hand]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/mighty]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/majesty]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/holy]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/praise]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/miracle]]