# his right hand and laid it upon Ephraim's head

Placing the right hand on Ephraim's head was the sign that he would receive the greater blessing. (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/translate-symaction]])

# Israel blessed Joseph

Here "Joseph" also stands for Ephraim and Manasseh. Since Joseph is the father, he is the only one mentioned here. (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-synecdoche]])

# The God before whom my fathers Abraham and Isaac walked

Serving God is spoken of as if it were walking before God. AT: "The God who my grandfather Abraham and father Isaac served" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metaphor]])

# who has cared for me

God has taken care of Israel like a shepherd takes care of his sheep. AT: "who has cared for me like a shepherd cares for his animals" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-explicit]])

# the angel

Possible meanings are 1) this refers to the angel that God sent to protect Jacob or 2) this refers to God who appeared in angel form to protect Jacob.

# protected me

"delivered me"

# May my name be named in them, and the name of my fathers Abraham and Isaac

Here "name" stands for the person. The phrase "my name be named in them" is an idiom that means a person is remembered because of another person. This can be stated in active form. AT: "May people remember Abraham, Isaac, and me because of Ephraim and Manasseh" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metonymy]] and [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-idiom]] and [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-activepassive]])

# May they grow into a multitude on the earth

Here "they" refers to Ephraim and Manasseh, but it stands for their descendants. AT: "May they have many descendants who will live all over the earth" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metonymy]])

# translationWords

* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/jacob]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/righthand]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/ephraim]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/manasseh]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/firstborn]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/bless]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/god]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/father]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/abraham]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/isaac]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/walk]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/angel]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/name]]