# Connecting Statement:

Ezekiel continues to describe his vision.

# a windstorm

This is a storm that has a lot of wind.

# coming from the north

North is the direction to your left when you look toward the sun while it is rising.

# a great cloud with fire flashing within it

This can be translated as a new sentence: "The storm had a very large cloud with fire flashing in it"

# fire flashing

Possible meanings are 1) "flashing lightning" or 2) "constant lightning."

# brightness surrounding it and inside of it

"a very bright light was around the cloud and inside of it"

# the color of amber

"bright yellow like amber" or "bright yellow" or "glowing yellow"

# amber

a hard yellow resin that is used as a beautiful decoration on jewelry

# In the middle

"Inside the storm"

# the likeness of four living creatures

Here the abstract noun "likeness" means that what Ezekiel saw looked like these things. The word can be translated with a verbal phrase. AT: "what looked like four living creatures" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-abstractnouns]])

# This was their appearance

The abstract noun "appearance" can be translated as a verbal phrase. AT: "This is what they looked like" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-abstractnouns]])

# They had the likeness of a man

The abstract noun "appearance" can be translated as a verbal phrase. AT: "The four creatures looked like people" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-abstractnouns]])

# but they had four faces each, and each of the creatures had four wings

"but each of them had four different faces and four wings." Each creature had a face on the front, a face on the back, and a face on each side of its head.

# translationWords

* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/fire]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/like]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/life]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/creature]]