# General Information:

Ezekiel continues to tell about his vision of the living creatures.

# Then I heard the sound of their wings. Like the noise of many waters. Like the voice of the Almighty whenever they moved. Like

Other possible meanings are that the words "whenever they moved" refer to 1) all the words before them in this verse, "Whenever they moved, I heard the sound of their wings. Like the noise of rushing water. Like the voice of the Almighty. Like" or 2) to the words that follow, "wings. Like the noise of rushing water. Like the voice of the Almighty. Whenever they moved, it sounded like."

# Like ... waters. Like ... moved. Like ... rainstorm. Like ... army.

These sentences are not complete because Ezekiel was showing that he was excited about what he saw. They can be translated as complete sentences: "The wings sounded like ... water. They sounded like ... moved. They sounded like ... rainstorm. They sounded like ... army." (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-simile]])

# many waters

This simply means "a lot of water." It could refer to a loud river or a large waterfall or the waves crashing at the ocean. All of these are very loud.

# Like the voice of the Almighty

The Bible sometimes refers to thunder as "the voice of the Almighty." Alternate translation: "It sounded like the voice of the Almighty God" or "It sounded like the thunder of the Almighty" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metonymy]])

# Like the sound of a rainstorm

Possible meanings are: 1) "Like the sound of very big storm" or 2) "Like the sound of a very large crowd of people" Alternate translation: "There was a sound that was loud like a big storm" or "There was a sound that was loud like a very large crowd of people" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-simile]])

# Whenever they stood still

"Whenever the creatures stopped moving"

# they lowered their wings

"the creatures let their wings hang down by their sides." They did this when they were not using their wings to fly.

