# General Information:

Ezekiel continues to tell about the vision.

# from the appearance of his hips up

The person's body above the hips looked like glowing metal that had fire in it. The abstract noun "appearance" can be translated as a verb. AT: "from what appeared to be his hips up" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-abstractnouns]])

# from the appearance of his hips downward the appearance of fire and brightness all around

The abstract noun "appearance" can be translated as a verb. AT: "all around him below what appeared to be his hips, I saw what looked like fire and a bright light" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-abstractnouns]])

# Like the appearance of a rainbow in the clouds on a rainy day was the appearance of the bright light surrounding it

The abstract noun "appearance" can be translated as a verb. AT: "The brightness surrounding it appeared to be like the way a rainbow appears in the clouds on a rainy day" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-abstractnouns]])

# rainbow

the colorful strip of light that appears in the rain when the sun shines from behind the viewer

# It was the appearance of the likeness of the glory of Yahweh

The abstract noun "likeness" means that what Ezekiel saw looked like the glory of Yahweh. Both "appearance" and "likeness" can be translated as with a verbal phrase. AT: "It appeared to be what looked like the glory of Yahweh" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-abstractnouns]])

# I fell on my face

"I bowed down to the ground" or "I lay on the ground." Ezekiel did not fall by accident. He went down to the ground to show that he respected and feared Yahweh. (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-idiom]])

# I heard a voice speaking

The word "voice" is a metonym for the person. AT: "I heard someone speaking" or "Someone spoke, and I heard his voice" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metonymy]])