# General Information:

See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/writing-poetry]] and [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-parallelism]]

# General Information:

Part One of the book begins in [Song of Solomon 1:2](./01.md).

# The Song of Songs

"The Best Song" or "The Most Excellent Song"

# which is Solomon's

Possible meanings are "which is about Solomon" or "which Solomon composed."

# your love is better than wine

"I enjoy having you near me more than I enjoy drinking wine"

# Your anointing oils

"The oils that you put on your body"

# have a delightful fragrance

"smell wonderful"

# your name is like flowing perfume

Perfume has a good smell that spreads as the air moves. The name is either a metonym for 1) the person's reputation, what other people think of him. Here the speaker says that people always think that the hearer is a good person, or 2) the person himself. (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-simile]] and [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metonymy]])

# Take me with you

"Bring me along with you." The word "you" refers to the man.

# Take

"Pull" or "Drag." Here the woman described as being like a captive who is willing to follow her captor. (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metaphor]])

# we will run

The word "we" refers to the young woman together with the man. (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-inclusive]])

# We are glad ... We rejoice ... let us celebrate

The woman speaks of herself as if she were more than one person. Many versions change the pronoun to "I" as the UDB does. Other versions think these are the words of the woman's friends speaking about either the woman or the man. (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-pronouns]] and [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-exclusive]])

# about you

"because of you"

# let us celebrate

"let us praise"

# It is natural for the other women to adore you

"Women who adore you are doing as they should do"

# translationWords

* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/names/solomon]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/kiss]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/love]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/wine]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/anoint]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/oil]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/delight]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/name]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/king]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/rejoice]]