# General Information:

Ezekiel tells about another vision he saw.

# So it came about

This phrase is used here to mark the beginning of a new part of the story. If your language has a way for doing this, you could consider using it here.

# in the sixth year

You may need to make explicit the time period of which this is the sixth year. AT: "in the sixth year of the exile of King Jehoiachin" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/translate-ordinal]] and [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-explicit]])

# the sixth month, in the fifth day of the month

This is the sixth month of the Hebrew calendar. The fifth day is near the beginning of September on Western calendars. AT: "the fifth day of the sixth month." (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/translate-hebrewmonths]] and [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/translate-ordinal]])

# the hand of the Lord Yahweh again fell upon me

This should be translated literally, as Ezekiel later sees something like a hand. Others may choose to consider the hand a metaphor for Yahweh's presence or power. (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metaphor]])

# Lord Yahweh

See how you translated this in [Ezekiel 2:4](../02/04.md).

# fell upon

"took hold of"

# a likeness with the appearance of a man

Here the abstract noun "likeness" means that what Ezekiel saw looked like a man. Both "likeness" and "appearance" can be translated with a verbal phrase. AT: "there was someone who appeared to be a man" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-abstractnouns]])

# glowing metal

When metal is very hot, it glows with a yellow or orange light.

# the appearance of his hips ... the appearance of something shining

The abstract noun "appearance" can be translated as a verb. AT: "what appeared to be his hips ... what appeared to be something shining" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-abstractnouns]])