# Do you see this ... man?

Yahweh is commanding Ezekiel to think about what he has just seen. AT: "Think about this ... man." (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-rquestion]])

# Is it a little thing for the house of Judah to do these abominations that they are doing here?

God uses this question to show that he is right to be angry at the people of Judah. AT: "I am right to be angry at the house of Judah because of these abominations that they are doing here." (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-rquestion]])

# house of Judah

The word "house" is a metonym for the family that lives in the house, in this case the descendants of Judah over many years. See how you translated these words in [Ezekiel 3:1](../03/01.md). AT: "the Judah people group" or "the people of Judah" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metonymy]])

# they have filled the land with violence

"throughout the country they are doing violent things or "all over the country they are attacking one another"

# to provoke me to anger

"to make me angry"

# putting the branch to their noses

Possible meanings are 1) the people were using the branches in false worship or 2) the people were using the branches to show rebellion against Yahweh. The words "branch to ... noses" may be a literal tree branch and literal noses, or they could be the term for a hand gesture. (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-idiom]])

# my eye will not have compassion

The eye is a synecdoche for the person whose eye it is. AT: "I will not look on them with compassion" or "I will not be compassionate to them" (See: and [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-synecdoche]])

# I will not spare them

"I will still punish them"

# Though they cry in my ears with a loud voice

"Though they yell their prayers to me with a loud voice"

# I will not hear them

"I will not listen to them"

# translationWords

* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/house]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/names/judah]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/abomination]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/angry]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/compassion]]