# I have certainly heard Ephraim sorrowing

Ephraim was the ancestor of the largest tribe in Israel. His name is a metonym for the people of Israel. AT: "I have certainly heard the descendants of Ephraim sorrowing" or "I have certainly heard the people of Israel sorrowing" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metonymy]])

# You punished me, and I have been punished

The speaker repeats the phrase to show either that Yahweh punished him severely or that Ephraim learned what Yahweh wanted to teach him through punishing him. The words "I have been punished" can be translated in active form. AT: "You punished me. Yes, you punished me severely" or "You punished me, and I learned from you when you punished me" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-parallelism]] and [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-activepassive]])

# I have been punished like an untrained calf

When people train calves, they strike them and otherwise cause them to suffer. Yahweh had caused the people of Israel to suffer. (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-simile]])

# punished

Another possible meaning is "disciplined."

# I slapped my thigh

in grief. If people use a different phrase or action in your language to show that they are very sad, you may want to use it here. AT: "I rubbed my brow" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-idiom]] and [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/translate-symaction]])

# I was ashamed and humiliated

The words "ashamed" and "humiliated" mean basically the same thing and intensify the idea of shame. AT: "I was completely ashamed" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-doublet]])

# Is not Ephraim my precious child? Is he not my dear, delightful son?

Yahweh is speaking tenderly, trying to comfort the people. These questions can be translated as statements. AT: "Ephraim is my precious child. He is my dear, delightful son. (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-rquestion]])

# this is Yahweh's declaration

Yahweh speaks of himself by name to express the certainty of what he is declaring. See how you translated this in [Jeremiah 1:8](../01/07.md). AT: "this is what Yahweh has declared" or "this is what I, Yahweh, have declared" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-123person]])

# translationWords

* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/names/ephraim]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/punish]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/cow]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/turn]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/shame]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/guilt]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/mind]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/heart]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/declare]]