# General Information:

Parallelism is common in Hebrew poetry. (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/writing-poetry]] and [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-parallelism]])

# A psalm of David

Possible meanings are 1) David wrote the psalm or 2) the psalm is about David or 3) the psalm is in the style of David's psalms.

# A maschil

This may refer to a style of music.

# whose transgression is forgiven, whose sin is covered

These phrases have similar meanings. They can be stated in active form. AT: "who God forgives his transgression and covers his sin" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-parallelism]] and [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-activepassive]])

# whose sin is covered

Here sin that is forgiven is spoken of as if it were covered so that it can not be seen. AT: "whose sin is ignored" or "whose sin is deliberately forgotten" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metaphor]])

# to whom Yahweh reckons no guilt

This can be stated in active form. AT: "whom Yahweh sees as innocent" or "who is not guilty according to Yahweh" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-activepassive]])

# in whose spirit there is no deceit

Here "spirit" refers to the person. AT: "in whom there is not deceit" or "who is completely honest" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-synecdoche]])

# translationWords

* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/psalm]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/names/david]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/bless]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/transgression]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/forgive]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/sin]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/yahweh]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/guilt]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/spirit]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/deceive]]