# You are my hiding place

Yahweh is spoken of as if he was a safe place from the attacks of the writer's enemies. AT: "You are like a place where I can hide myself from my enemies" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metaphor]])

# You will surround me with the songs of victory

This metaphor apparently means that Yahweh's protection of the writer is the cause for songs of victory to be sung. AT: "Because of you I will sing songs of victory" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metaphor]])

# Selah

This may be a musical term that tells people how to sing or play their instruments here. Some translations write the Hebrew word, and some translations do not include it. See how you translated this in [Psalms 3:2](../003/001.md). (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/translate-transliterate]])

# I will instruct you and teach you in the way

The words "instruct" and "teach" mean basically the same thing and emphasize careful instruction. AT: "I will teach you everything about the way" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-doublet]])

# I will instruct

Here the "I" is probably Yahweh who talks directly to David.

# in the way which you should go

Living in the correct way is spoken of as if it were a path that the writer should walk. AT: "how you should live your life" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metaphor]])

# with my eye upon you

Here "my eye" refers to Yahweh's attention. AT: "and direct my attention to you" or "and watch over you" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metonymy]])

# translationWords

* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/trouble]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/instruct]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/teach]]