# the house of Jacob

The word "house" here represents Jacob's family and descendants. AT: "the descendants of Jacob" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metonymy]])

# the house of Jacob, the people of Israel

The phrase "the people of Israel" explains what "the house of Jacob" means.

# You have seen

The word "you" here refers to the Israelites. Yahweh is telling Moses what to tell the Israelites. (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-you]])

# I carried you on eagles' wings

God speaks of caring for his people while they traveled as if he were an eagle and carried them on his wings. AT: "I helped you travel like an eagle that carries her babies on her wings" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metaphor]])

# obediently listen to my voice

Obediently can be expressed as a verb. AT: "listen to my voice and obey me"

# my voice

God's voice represents what he says. AT: "what I say" or "my words" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metonymy]])

# keep my covenant

"do what my covenant requires you to do"

# special possession

"treasure"

# a kingdom of priests

God speaks of his people as if they were priests. AT: "a kingdom of people who are like priests" or "a kingdom of people who do what priests do" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metaphor]])

# translationWords

* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/moses]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/god]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/yahweh]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/call]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/house]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/jacob]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/eagle]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/obey]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/voice]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/covenant]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/possess]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/peoplegroup]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/earth]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/kingdom]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/priest]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/holy]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/nation]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/word]]