# General Information:

Yahweh continues to instruct Moses on where to go and what Yahweh will do.

# I will harden Pharaoh's heart

Here "heart" refers to the Pharaoh. His stubborn attitude is spoken of as if his heart was hard. See how you translated a similar phrase in [Exodus 9:12](../09/11.md). AT: "I will cause Pharaoh to became more defiant" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-synecdoche]] and [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metaphor]])

# he will pursue them

"Pharaoh will pursue the Israelites"

# I will get honor

"People will honor me"

# The Egyptians will know that I am Yahweh

"The Egyptians will understand that I am Yahweh, the one true God"

# So the Israelites camped as they were instructed

This can be stated in active form. AT: "So the Israelites camped as Yahweh had instructed them" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-activepassive]])

# When the king of Egypt was told

This can be stated in active form. AT: "When someone told the king of Egypt" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-activepassive]])

# the king of Egypt

This refers to Pharaoh.

# had fled

"had run away"

# the minds of Pharaoh and his servants turned against the people

Here the word "minds" refers to their attitudes towards the Israelites. AT: "Pharaoh and his servants changed their attitudes about the people" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metonymy]])

# What have we done? We have released Israel from serving us.

They asked this question to show they thought they had done a foolish thing. This rhetorical question can be translated as a statement. AT: "We have done a stupid thing by letting Israel go free from working for us!" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-rquestion]])

# translationWords

* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/hard]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/heart]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/honor]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/egypt]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/know]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/instruct]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/king]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/mind]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/servant]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/peopleofgod]]