# When Pharaoh came close

The word "Pharaoh" here represents the entire Egyptian army. AT: "When Pharaoh and his army came close" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-synecdoche]])

# they were terrified

"the Israelites were terrified"

# Is it because there were no graves in Egypt, that you have taken us away to die in the wilderness?

The Israelites ask this question to express their frustration and fear of dying. This rhetorical question can be translated as a statement. AT: "There were plenty of graveyards in Egypt for us to be buried in. You did not have to take us into the wilderness to die!" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-rquestion]])

# Why have you treated us like this, bringing us out of Egypt?

The Israelites ask this question to rebuke Moses for bringing them to the desert to die. This rhetorical question can be translated as a statement. AT: "You should not have treated us like this by bringing us out of Egypt!" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-rquestion]])

# Is this not what we told you in Egypt?

The Israelites ask this question to emphasize that this is what they had told Moses. This rhetorical question can be translated as a statement. AT: "This is exactly what we told you while we were in Egypt." (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-rquestion]])

# We said to you, 'Leave us alone, so we can work for the Egyptians.'

This can be stated as an indirect quote. AT: "We told you to leave us alone, so we could work for the Egyptians." (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-quotations]])

# translationWords

* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/terror]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/cry]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/tomb]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/death]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/desert]]