# Will your covenant faithfulness be proclaimed in the grave, your loyalty in the place of the dead?

Both questions mean the same thing. The writer uses questions to emphasize that a dead person is not able to praise God's faithfulness. The abstract nouns "faithfulness" and "loyalty" can be translated as adjectives. This can be stated in active form. AT: "Nobody will proclaim your covenant faithfulness or loyalty from the grave." or "Nobody will proclaim from the grave that you are faithful to your covenant and loyal to your people" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-parallelism]] and [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-rquestion]] and [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-activepassive]])

# the grave ... the place of the dead ... in the darkness ... the place of forgetfulness

All of these represent the place where people go after they die.

# your loyalty in the place of the dead?

This can be translated as a separate sentence. AT: "Will your loyalty be proclaimed in the place of the dead?" or "Those who are dead will not proclaim your loyalty." (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-ellipsis]] and [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-rquestion]])

# Will your wonderful deeds be known in the darkness, or your righteousness in the place of forgetfulness?

Both questions mean the same thing. The writer uses questions to emphasize that those who are dead are not able to experience or proclaim the great things God does. This can be stated in active form. AT: "People will not talk about your wonderful deeds and righteousness in the dark place of the forgotten dead." (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-parallelism]] and [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-rquestion]] and [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-activepassive]])

# or your righteousness in the place of forgetfulness?

This can be translated as a separate sentence. AT: "Will your righteousness be known in the place of forgetfulness?" or "Those who are in the place of forgetfulness will not know about the righteous things you do." (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-ellipsis]] and [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-rquestion]])

# translationWords

* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/covenantfaith]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/proclaim]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/tomb]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/death]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/works]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/darkness]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/righteous]]