# he has shed someone's blood

Here "blood" represents a person's life. To "shed blood" means to murder someone. AT: "he has killed someone" or "he has murdered someone" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metonymy]])

# fugitive

a person who is running away to avoid being captured

# until death

"until he dies." This means for the rest of his life. AT: "all of his life" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-idiom]])

# Whoever walks with integrity will be kept safe

This can be expressed in active form. AT: "God will keep safe anyone who walks with integrity" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-activepassive]])

# Whoever

"Anyone who"

# walks with integrity

This represents a person living a life of integrity. The abstract noun "integrity" can be expressed as an adverb. AT: "walks honestly" or "lives honestly" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metaphor]] and [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-abstractnouns]])

# the one whose way is crooked

A dishonest person is spoken of as if he walks on crooked or twisted paths. AT: "the one who does not live honestly" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metaphor]])

# will suddenly fall

What will happen to a dishonest person is spoken of as if he suddenly fell down. AT: "will suddenly be ruined" or "will suddenly perish" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metaphor]])

# translationWords

* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/guilt]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/death]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/walk]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/integrity]]