# The one

"The person"

# the poor

This refers to poor people in general. AT: "poor people" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-nominaladj]])

# lack nothing

This double negative is used for emphasis. AT: "have everything they need" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-litotes]])

# whoever closes his eyes to them will receive many curses

This can be stated in active form. Possible meanings are 1) they will receive many curses from the poor. AT: "the poor will give many curses to whoever closes his eyes to them" or 2) they will receive many curses from people in general. AT: "people will give many curses to whoever closes his eyes to the poor" or 3) they will receive many curses from God. AT: "God will give many curses to whoever closes his eyes to the poor" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-activepassive]])

# whoever

"anyone who"

# closes his eyes to

Closing the eyes represents not responding to the needs of the poor. AT: "ignores" or "chooses not to help" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metonymy]])

# When the wicked arise

This is an idiom that means when wicked people gain power or start to rule. AT: "When wicked people rise to power" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-idiom]])

# people hide themselves

This is an exaggeration for doing everything they can to avoid having wicked people harm them. AT: "people go into hiding." (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-hyperbole]] and [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-rpronouns]])

# perish

Possible meanings are 1) "go away" or 2) "fall from power" or 3) "are destroyed."

# increase

Possible meanings are 1) "multiply" or 2) "rise to power."