# General Information:

Yahweh continues telling Moses what the people must do so their offerings will be acceptable to him.

# will put fire on the altar and place wood to feed the fire

This may mean that the priests placed hot coals on the altar, then placed the wood on the coals. Or you may need to reorder this as in the UDB. AT: "will put wood on the altar and light a fire" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-events]])

# to feed the fire

This is an idiom that means to keep putting wood in the fire. Translate this idiom so it is understood that the fire on the altar must be kept burning. AT: "to keep the fire burning" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-idiom]])

# But its inner parts and its legs he must wash with water

The person would do this before giving the pieces to the priests to place on the altar. You can state this at the end of [Leviticus 1:6](./05.md).

# inner parts

This is the stomach and intestines.

# he must wash

Here "he" refers to the one making the offering.

# It will produce a sweet aroma for me

Yahweh being pleased with the sincere worshiper offering the sacrifice is spoken of as if Yahweh were pleased by the aroma of the burning sacrifice. (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metaphor]])

# an offering made to me by fire

Yahweh is telling Moses that the offerings are to be burnt with fire. This can be stated in active form. AT: "a burnt offering to me" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-activepassive]])

# translationWords

* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/aaron]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/priest]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/fire]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/altar]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/burntoffering]]