# May those who seek my life be shamed and dishonored

This can be stated in active form. AT: "May Yahweh shame and dishonor those who seek my life" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-activepassive]])

# May those

"I desire that"

# who seek my life

Here "seek my life" means they desire to kill the writer. The writer is represented by his "life." AT: "who are trying to kill me" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metaphor]] and [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-synecdoche]])

# May those who plan to harm me be turned back and confounded

This can be stated in active form. AT: "May Yahweh turn back and confound those who plan to harm me" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-activepassive]])

# be turned back

"be turned back" here is a metaphor for being unable to accomplish their goal. AT: "be unsuccessful" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metaphor]])

# confounded

"confused"

# as chaff before the wind

The writer's enemies are spoken of as if they are chaff that is easily blown away. AT: "blown away by the wind like chaff" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-simile]])

# their way

Here "their way" refers to their lives. AT: "their lives" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metonymy]])

# dark and slippery

This refers to a way that is hidden and dangerous. AT: "hidden and full of dangers" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metaphor]])

# chases them

This refers to the angel of Yahweh being opposed to the writer's enemies. AT: "works against them" or "opposes them" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metaphor]])

# translationWords

* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/life]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/shame]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/dishonor]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/turn]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/chaff]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/angel]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/darkness]]