# they set their net for me

The schemes of the wicked are spoken of as if they were a net that they set to catch the writer. AT: "they want to catch me in a net like a small animal" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metaphor]])

# they dug a pit for my life

The schemes of the wicked are spoken of as if they were a pit that they dug to catch the writer. AT: "they wanted to capture me in a pit like a big animal" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metaphor]])

# my life

This refers to the writer. AT: "me" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-synecdoche]])

# Let destruction overtake them by surprise

Destruction is spoken of as if it was a dangerous animal that would suddenly attack them. AT: "Let them be destroyed suddenly" or "Let them be surprised because you destroy them suddenly" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-personification]])

# the net that they have set

The schemes of the wicked are spoken of as if they were a net that they place to catch the writer. AT: "the net that they placed in order to capture me like an animal and harm me" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metaphor]])

# Let them fall into it

This is the same metaphor as in verse 7. The net is intended to catch the writer. AT: "Let them fall into the pit that they dug for me" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metaphor]] and [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-explicit]])

# fall into it

Possible meanings are 1) fall into the pit of verse 7 or 2) fall into destruction.

# to their destruction

The abstract noun "destruction" can be stated as a verb. AT: "so that they will be destroyed" or "that is how you should destroy them" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-abstractnouns]])