# They open their mouths wide against me

The reason they open their mouths is to accuse the writer. AT: "They shout at me in order to accuse me" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-explicit]])

# Aha, Aha

This is an exclamation that is used when something is suddenly seen or understood. It emphasizes the statement that follows. (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-exclamations]])

# our eyes have seen it

Here "our eyes" refers to the enemies' eyes. It is implied that they are saying they saw the writer do something wrong. AT: "we have seen it" or "we saw the wrong things that you did" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-synecdoche]] and [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-explicit]])

# You have seen it

Here "it" refers to the false accusations of the writer's enemies. AT: "You have seen how they falsely accused me" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-explicit]])

# do not be silent

"do not ignore what they did" This can be stated in positive form. AT: "judge them because of what they did" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-litotes]])

# do not be far from me

This can be stated in positive form. AT: "be very close to me" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-litotes]])

# Arouse yourself and awake

This does not mean that God is actually asleep. The writer wants God to intervene. Both words mean basically the same thing and emphasize the urgency of this request. AT: "I feel like you are sleeping! Wake up" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metaphor]] and [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-doublet]])

# to my defense

This abstract noun "defense" can be stated as "defend." AT: "to defend me" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-abstractnouns]])

# my cause

This refers to the writer. AT: "me" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metonymy]])