# do not let them rejoice over me

"do not let them be glad because I am suffering"

# say in their heart

This is an idiom that means to say to oneself. AT: "say to themselves" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-idiom]])

# Aha

This is an exclamation that is used when something is suddenly seen or understood. It emphasizes what follows. AT: "Yes" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-exclamations]])

# we have what we wanted

It is implied that the writer's enemies wanted him to be declared guilty. AT: "he has been declared guilty just as we desired!" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-explicit]])

# We have devoured him

The writer's enemies speak of his destruction as if they were wild animals who had eaten him. AT: "We have swallowed him up" or "We have destroyed him" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metaphor]])

# confound

"humiliate" or "perplex"

# May those who taunt me be covered with shame and dishonor

This can be stated in active form. AT: "May you cover with shame and dishonor those who taunt me" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-activepassive]])

# taunt

to insult someone to make them angry

# covered with shame and dishonor

Here shame and dishonor are spoken of as if they were shameful clothes that the writer could wear. These abstract nouns can be stated as verbs. AT: "shamed and dishonored" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-abstractnouns]] and [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metaphor]])

# shame and dishonor

These terms mean about the same thing and are used to emphasize how degraded they will be. (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-doublet]])

# translationWords

* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/god]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/righteous]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/rejoice]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/heart]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/devour]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/shame]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/dishonor]]