# General Information:

Yahweh speaks to the people of Israel.

# Be attentive to me ... listen to me

These two phrases mean the same thing. Together they strengthen the command to listen. (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-parallelism]])

# I will make my justice to be a light for the nations

Here God's justice represents his law, and a light represents knowledge of what is right. This means the people of the nations will understand and obey God's law. AT: "my law will teach the nations what is right" or "the nations will know my law" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metaphor]])

# My righteousness is near

The idea of "near" represents "soon." God's righteousness being near represents him soon showing his righteousness. He will do this this by fulfilling his promises and saving people. AT: "I will soon show my righteousness" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metaphor]])

# my salvation will go out

God speaks of saving people as if his salvation were a thing that could go out to them. AT: "I will save people" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metaphor]])

# my arm will judge the nations

Here God's arm represents his power, and judging represents ruling. AT: "I will rule the nations with my power" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metonymy]])

# the coastlands

This refers to the people who live on the coasts of distant lands across the sea. AT: "the people who live on the coastlands" or "the people who live in the the lands across the sea" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metonymy]])

# for my arm they will eagerly wait

Here God's arm represents what he will do. Here it refers to him saving people. AT: "they will eagerly wait for me to do something" or "they will eagerly wait for me to save them" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metonymy]] and [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-explicit]])

# translationWords

* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/peopleofgod]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/decree]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/justice]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/light]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/nation]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/righteous]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/salvation]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/judge]]