# Awake, awake, clothe yourself with strength, arm of Yahweh

People urgently ask Yahweh's arm to help them as if his arm were a person. If it would be odd to speak to the arm, this can be addressed directly to Yahweh instead. AT: "Awake, awake, Yahweh, and clothe your arm with strength" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-personification]])

# Awake, awake ... arm of Yahweh

People speak as if Yahweh's arm were asleep because it has not been helping them. Here the "arm of Yahweh" represents Yahweh, specifically him helping people. The word "Awake" is repeated to show that they need God's help urgently. (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-synecdoche]] and [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-personification]])

# clothe yourself with strength

Strength is spoken of as if it were some kind of clothing that people would wear to strengthen themselves in battle. AT: "make yourself strong" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metaphor]])

# Is it not you who crushed Rahab, you who pierced the monster?

The speaker uses a question to emphasize Yahweh's power to do mighty things. AT: "It is you who crushed Rahab, you who pierced the monster." (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-rquestion]])

# Rahab ... the monster

Rahab was the name of this mythological serpent in the sea. Rahab can symbolize either the nation of Egypt or evil and chaos. (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-parallelism]])

# Did you not dry up the sea ... for the redeemed to pass through?

Again, the speaker uses questions to emphasize Yahweh's power to do mighty things. This refers to Yahweh opening the Red Sea for the Israelites to cross and escape the army of Egypt. AT: "You dried up the sea ... for the redeemed to pass through." (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-rquestion]])