# General Information:

Yahweh continues speaking to the people of Israel.

# Why have you forgotten Yahweh ... earth?

Yahweh uses a question to emphasize that they should not forget Yahweh. This may be written as a statement. AT: "You should not have forgotten Yahweh ... earth." (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-rquestion]])

# Maker

See how you translated this name for Yahweh in [Isaiah 17:7](../17/06.md).

# who stretched out the heavens

"who spread out the sky." This speaks of Yahweh having created the heavens as if he had stretched them out in the same way one would stretch out a large garment. AT: "who stretched out the heavens like a garment" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metaphor]])

# the foundations of the earth

The word "foundation" normally refers to a stone structure that gives support to a building from underneath. Here it describes a similar structure that was thought to support and hold the earth in place. See how you translated this phrase in [Isaiah 24:18](../24/17.md).

# the hot fury of the oppressor when he decides to destroy

"the oppressor's hot fury when he decides to cause destruction"

# hot fury

Here the word "hot" means "strong" or "great." AT: "great fury" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-idiom]])

# Where is the fury of the oppressor?

Yahweh uses a question to emphasize that the people should not fear those who want to oppress them. Their oppressors are no longer a threat to them. This may be written as a statement. AT: "The fury of the oppressor is not a threat!" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-rquestion]])

# translationWords

* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/yahweh]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/heaven]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/foundation]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/earth]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/oppress]]