# General Information:

Yahweh continues speaking to the people of Israel.

# The one who is bent down

This refers to the people of Israel who are slaves of the Babylonians. This phrase describes how they work. AT: "The slave" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metonymy]])

# the pit

This refers to Sheol. AT: "the pit of Sheol" or "the grave" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metonymy]])

# nor will he lack bread

Here "bread" represents food in general. This can be written in positive form. AT: "nor will he be without food" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-synecdoche]])

# who churns up the sea

This speaks of Yahweh causing the sea to move and the waves to rise and fall as if he were stirring the sea as one stirs the contents of a bowl with a large spoon. AT: "who causes the sea to churn" or "who makes the sea move up and down" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metaphor]])

# its waves roar

A roar is a powerful, loud sound made by something that is alive, such as a bear or lion. Here the waves are described as making this powerful sound. AT: "its waves crash loudly" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-personification]])

# Yahweh of hosts

See how you translated this name for Yahweh in [Isaiah 1:9](../01/09.md).

# translationWords

* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/yahweh]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/death]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/pit]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/bread]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/god]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/yahwehofhosts]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/name]]