# Awake, awake, stand up, Jerusalem

Here "Jerusalem" represents the people who live there. Yahweh speaks to the people of Jerusalem as if they were there listening to him. AT: "Awake, awake, stand up, you people of Jerusalem" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metonymy]] and [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-apostrophe]])

# Awake, awake, stand up

"Be alert and arise." The repetition of the word "awake" emphasizes the urgency of the call to arouse the people of Israel. It is not used to wake them from literal sleep.

# you who have drunk out of the hand of Yahweh ... from the cup of staggering

Yahweh speaks of having punished his people as if he had forced them to drink from a bowl that was filled with his anger. And when they drank from the bowl of his anger, they staggered as if they had drank a lot of wine. (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metaphor]])

# down to the dregs

The word "dregs" means the solid pieces at the very bottom of a container that has a liquid in it. AT: "down to the very bottom"

# out of the hand of Yahweh

Here Yahweh is referred to by his hand to emphasize that he is the one who gave the bowl to his people. AT: "that he gave to you" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-synecdoche]])

# from the cup of staggering

"from the cup that caused you to stagger as if you were drunk on wine"

# staggering

not walking straight, or stumbling while walking

# There is no one ... to guide her; there is no one ... to take her by the hand

These two clauses have the same meaning and can be combined. This speaks of Jerusalem being helpless as if the city were a drunk woman without a son to help her walk safely. AT: "You have no one to help you! You are like a drunk old woman without a son to take her by the hand and guide her" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-parallelism]] and [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metaphor]])

# translationWords

* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/jerusalem]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/angry]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/son]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/raise]]