# General Information:

Isaiah continues speaking to the people of Israel.

# who will grieve with you? ... Who will comfort you?

Isaiah uses questions to emphasize that now there is no one to weep with them or comfort them. These questions may be written as statements. AT: "but there is no one to grieve with you ... There is no one to comfort you." (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-rquestion]])

# These two troubles

The two troubles refer to the following two phrases: "desolation and destruction" and "the famine and the sword."

# desolation and destruction

These words have similar meanings and emphasize the destruction of the land caused by the opposing army. AT: "your enemies have left your city empty and ruined" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-doublet]])

# the famine and the sword

The words "famine" and "sword" describe the trouble that will come upon the people. The "sword" refers to "war." AT: "many of you have died from hunger and war" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metonymy]])

# they lie at every street corner

This is generalization. Many children will lie in the street, but not necessarily on every street corner. AT: "they lie on the street" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-hyperbole]])

# like an antelope in a net

This speaks of the children being exhausted and helpless as if they were an antelope caught in a trap. AT: "they are helpless, like an antelope caught in a net" or "as helpless as a trapped antelope" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-simile]])

# antelope

This is an animal, similar to a deer, that has horns and runs very fast. AT: "deer" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/translate-unknown]])

# they are filled with the anger of Yahweh, the rebuke of your God

The "anger of Yahweh" refers to Yahweh punishing his people because of his anger against them. This speaks of the people having been severely punished as if they had become full of Yahweh's anger. Also, the word "rebuke" can be written as a verb. AT: "they have been severely punished by Yahweh because he was angry with them and rebuked them" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metaphor]] and [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-abstractnouns]])

# translationWords

* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/desolate]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/famine]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/sword]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/son]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/rebuke]]