# General Information:

Isaiah continues speaking to the people of Israel.

# you oppressed one and drunken one

Yahweh uses the word "one" here to refer to all of the oppressed people. AT: "you oppressed people and drunken people" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-synecdoche]])

# drunken one, but not drunk with wine

This speaks of the people acting drunk because they are suffering as if they have become drunk from being forced to drink the bowl of Yahweh's anger. AT: "you who are drunk from drinking the wine of the bowl of Yahweh's anger" or "you who act drunk, because you have suffered greatly" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metaphor]] and [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-explicit]])

# See, I have taken the cup of staggering from your hand—the bowl, which is the cup of my anger—so that

This speaks of Yahweh no longer being angry with his people as if his anger were the contents of a cup that he was taking away from them. AT: "I will no longer be angry with you. See, it is like I have taken away from you the cup that made you stagger, that is, the cup that was full of my anger, so that" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metaphor]])

# See

This is used to draw the listeners' attention to what is said next. AT: "Listen"

# the cup of staggering

The word "cup" refers to what is in the cup. See how you translated a similar phrase in [Isaiah 51:17](./17.md). AT: "the cup of the wine that makes people stagger" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metonymy]])

# the bowl, which is the cup of my anger

Yahweh speaks of having punished people as if he had forced them to drink from a bowl that was filled with his anger. See how you translated a similar phrase in [Isaiah 51:17](./17.md). AT: "the bowl which is filled with my anger" or "the cup which is filled with my anger" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metaphor]])

# translationWords

* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/oppress]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/drunk]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/wine]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/lordyahweh]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/peopleofgod]]