# you are sons ... you are no longer a slave, but a son

Paul uses the word for male child here because the subject is inheritance. In his culture and that of his readers, inheritance passed most commonly, but not always, to male children. He was neither specifying nor excluding female children here.

# God has sent the Spirit of his Son into our hearts, who calls out, "Abba, Father."

By calling out "Abba, Father" the Spirit assures us that we are God's children and he loves us.

# sent the Spirit of his Son into our hearts

The heart is metonym for the part of a person that thinks and feels. AT: "sent his Son's Spirit to show us how to think and act" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metonymy]])

# his Son

This is an important title for Jesus, the Son of God. (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/guidelines-sonofgodprinciples]])

# who calls

The Spirit is the one who calls.

# Abba, Father

This is the way a young child would address his father in Paul's home language, but not in the language of the Galatian readers. To keep the sense of a foreign language, translate this as a word that sounds as much like "Abba" as your language allows.

# you are no longer a slave ... you are also an heir

Paul is addressing his readers as though they are one person, so "you" here is singular. (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-you]])

# heir

The people to whom God has made promises are spoken of as if they were to inherit property and wealth from a family member. (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metaphor]])