# General Information:

The chief captain writes a letter to Governor Felix about the arrest of Paul.

# General Information:

Claudius Lysias is the name of the chief captain. Governor Felix was the Roman governor over the whole region. (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/translate-names]])

# Claudius Lysias to the most excellent Governor Felix, greetings

This is a formal introduction to the letter. The chief captain begins by referring to himself. You can translate it in the first person. The words "am writing" are understood. AT: "I, Claudius Lysias, am writing to you, the most excellent Governor Felix. Greetings to you" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-123person]] and [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-ellipsis]])

# to the most excellent Governor Felix

"to Governor Felix who deserves greatest honors"

# This man was arrested by the Jews

Here "Jews" means "some of the Jews." This can be stated in active form. AT: "Some of the Jews arrested this man" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-synecdoche]] and [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-activepassive]])

# was about to be killed

This can be stated in active form. AT: "they were ready to kill Paul" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-activepassive]])

# I came upon them with soldiers

"I with my soldiers arrived at the place where Paul and these Jews were"

# translationWords

* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/governor]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/jew]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/rome]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/citizen]]