# Why are you now violating Yahweh's command?

Moses asks this question to rebuke the people of Israel. This rhetorical question can be translated as a statement. AT: "You should not be violating Yahweh's command again." (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-rquestion]])

# Yahweh is not with you

Helping them is spoken of as being with them. AT: "Yahweh will not help you" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metaphor]])

# to prevent you from being defeated by your enemies

This can be stated in active form. AT: "to prevent your enemies from defeating you" or "to give you victory over your enemies" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-activepassive]])

# you will die by the sword

Here "the sword" refers to battle. AT: "you will die in battle" or "they will kill you when you fight against them" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metonymy]])

# you turned back from following Yahweh

Obeying Yahweh is spoken of as following him, and stopping doing that is spoken of as turning away from him. AT: "you stopped obeying Yahweh" or "you have decided not to obey Yahweh" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metaphor]])

# he will not be with you

Helping them is spoken of as being with them. AT: "he will not help you" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metaphor]])

# translationWords

* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/yahweh]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/command]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/adversary]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/amalekite]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/canaan]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/sword]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/turn]]