# They were on the road ... and Jesus was going ahead of them

"Jesus and his disciples were walking on the road ... and Jesus was in front of his disciples"

# those who were following behind

"those who were following behind them." Some people were walking behind Jesus and his disciples.

# See

"Listen." Jesus uses this word to draw the people's attention, to let them know he is about to say something important.

# the Son of Man

Jesus is speaking about himself. This can be stated clearly. AT: "I, the Son of Man," (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-explicit]])

# the Son of Man will be delivered to

This can be stated in active form. AT: "someone will deliver the Son of Man to" or "they will hand the Son of Man over to" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-activepassive]])

# They will condemn

The word "They" refers to the chief priests and the scribes.

# deliver him

"taken to" or "hand him over to." This means Jesus will be given over to the control of the Gentiles. (See: rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metaphor).

# They will mock

"People will mock"

# put him to death

"kill him"

# he will rise

This refers to rising from the dead. AT: "he will rise from being dead" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-explicit]])

# translationWords

* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/names/jerusalem]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/amazed]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/fear]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/thetwelve]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/sonofman]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/chiefpriests]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/scribe]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/condemn]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/death]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/gentile]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/mock]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/raise]]