# hand you over

Here this means to put people under the control of the authorities. AT: "give you over to the authorities" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-idiom]])

# but the Holy Spirit

The words "will speak" are understood from the previous phrase. AT: "but the Holy Spirit will speak through you" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-ellipsis]])

# Brother will deliver up brother to death

This means that some people will betray their bothers, and this betrayal will cause their brothers to be killed. AT: "Brother will betray their brothers, handing them over to be put to death" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-idiom]])

# Brother ... brother

This refers to both brothers and sisters. AT: "People ... their siblings" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-gendernotations]])

# a father his child

The words "will deliver up to death" are understood from the previous phrase. This means that some fathers will betray their children, and this betrayal will cause their children to be killed. AT: "fathers will deliver up their children to death" or "fathers will betray their children, handing them over to be killed" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-ellipsis]] and [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-idiom]])

# Children will rise up against their parents

This means that children will oppose their parents and betray them. AT: "Children will oppose their parents" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-idiom]])

# cause them to be put to death

This means that the authorities will sentence the parents to be put to death. This can be stated in active form. AT: "cause the authorities to sentence the parents to die" or "the authorities will kill the parents" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-activepassive]])

# You will be hated by everyone

This can be stated in active form. AT: "Everyone will hate you" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-activepassive]])

# because of my name

Jesus uses the metonym "my name" to refer to himself. AT: "because of me" or "because you believe in me" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metonymy]])

# whoever endures to the end, that person will be saved

This may be stated in active form. AT: "whoever endures to the end, God will save that person" or "God will save whoever endures to the end" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-activepassive]])

# whoever endures to the end

Here "endures" represents continuing to be faithful to God even while suffering. AT: "whoever suffers and stays faithful to God to the end" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-explicit]])

# to the end

Possible meanings are 1) "to the end of his life" or 2) "to the end of that time of trouble"