# Truly I say to you

This indicates that the statement that follows is especially important. See how you translated this in [Mark 3:28](../03/28.md).

# will not pass away

This is a polite way to talk about someone dying. AT: "will not die" or "will not end" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-euphemism]])

# until all of these things

The phrase "these things" refers to the days of tribulation.

# Heaven and earth

The two extremes are given to refer to all of the sky, including the sun, moon, stars, and planets, and all of the earth. AT: "The sky, the earth, and everything in them" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-merism]])

# will pass away

"will cease to exist." Here this phrase refers to the world ending.

# my words will never pass away

Jesus speaks of words not losing their power as if they were something that will never physically die. AT: "my words will never lose their power" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metaphor]])

# that day or that hour

This refers to the time that the Son of Man will return. AT: "that day or that hour that the Son of Man will return" or "the day or the hour that I will return" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-explicit]])

# no one knows, not even the angels in heaven, nor the Son, but the Father

These words specify some of those who do not know when the Son of Man will return, different from the Father, who does know. AT: "no one knows—neither the angels in heaven nor the Son know—but the Father" or "neither the angels in heaven nor the Son know; no one knows but the Father" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-ellipsis]])

# the angels in heaven

Here "heaven" refers to the place where God lives.

# but the Father

It is best to translate "Father" with the same word that your language naturally uses to refer to a human father. Also, this is an ellipsis, stating that the Father knows when the Son will return. AT: "but only the Father knows" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-ellipsis]])

# translationWords

* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/generation]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/heaven]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/word]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/hour]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/angel]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/sonofman]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/sonofgod]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/godthefather]]