# General Information:

Jeremiah is speaking as if he were the whole tribe of Israel. (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-synecdoche]])

# Woe to me! Because of my broken bones, my wound is infected

Jeremiah speaks of the peoples' distress as if they were physically wounded by broken bones and infection. AT: "Woe to us! It is as though we have broken bones and an infected wound" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metaphor]])

# but I must bear it

Here Jeremiah represents the whole tribe of Israel. AT: "but we must bear it" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-synecdoche]])

# My tent is devastated, and all of my tent cords are cut in two

Here Jeremiah speaks of the enemy having destroyed their city as if their tent had been destroyed. AT: "It is as though our great tent is destroyed; the ropes that held it up have been cut" or "The enemy has completely destroyed our city" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metaphor]])

# My tent is devastated

This can be stated in active form. AT: "My enemy has devastated my tent" or "Our enemy has destroyed our tent" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-activepassive]])

# They have taken my children away from me

Here Jeremiah represents the whole tribe of Israel. AT: "Our enemies have taken our children away from us" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-synecdoche]])

# so they no longer exist

The children no longer existing is a metaphor for the parents never seeing them again. AT: "and it is like they no longer exist" or "and they will never return again" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metaphor]])

# There is no longer anyone to spread out my tent or to raise up my tent curtains

Here Jeremiah speaks of them not having descendants to rebuild their city as if their city were a tent that needs to be rebuilt. AT: "There is no one to rebuild our city" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metaphor]])

# translationWords

* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/woe]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/devastated]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/tent]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/raise]]