# General Information:

Jeremiah prays for the people of Israel.

# that the way of a man does not come from himself. No person walking directs his own steps

These two phrases mean the same thing. This means that no one has control over the various things that will happen to him during his life. AT: "that no person controls what will happen to him; no one is able to direct the events that he will experience" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-parallelism]] and [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-explicit]])

# Pour your fury on the nations

Here "the nations" refer to the people who live in them. AT: "In your fury, punish the nations" or "In your anger, punish the nations of the people" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metaphor]] and [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metonymy]])

# that do not call on your name

This is an idiom. AT: "that do not worship you" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-idiom]])

# For they have devoured Jacob and consumed him so as to completely destroy him

These three phrases have the same meaning. Jeremiah repeats this idea three times to emphasize the utter destruction of Israel. This speaks of the enemy armies attacking the people of Israel as if the armies were a fierce animal attacking and devouring its prey. AT: "For they have fiercely attacked the people of Israel and consumed them so as to completely destroy them" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-parallelism]] and [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metaphor]])

# demolish his habitation

"demolish their homes"

# translationWords

* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/discipline]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/justice]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/family]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/call]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/devour]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/consume]]