# When you take

Possible meanings are 1) "you" refers to just Moses or 2) "you" refers to Moses and the leaders of Israel in future generations when they take a census. (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-you]])

# a census of the Israelites

The leaders only counted the Israelite men.

# Everyone who is counted

This can be stated in active form. They counted only the men. AT: "Everyone you count" or "Every man you count" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-activepassive]])

# half a shekel of silver

"1/2 a shekel of silver." Translators may use a unit of measure that people understand and a round number: "5.5 grams of silver" or "six grams of silver" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/translate-bmoney]] and [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/translate-bweight]] and [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/translate-fraction]])

# according to the weight of the shekel of the sanctuary

There were evidently shekels of more than one weight at the time. This specified which one was to be used.

# twenty gerahs

"20 gerahs." A gerah is a unit that people used for measuring how much something very small weighed. (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/translate-unknown]] and [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/translate-numbers]])

# from twenty years old and up

Larger numbers are spoken of as being up or above smaller numbers. AT: "from twenty years old and more" or "who is twenty years old or older" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metaphor]])

# translationWords

* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/yahweh]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/names/moses]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/census]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/israel]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/ransom]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/plague]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/silver]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/sanctuary]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/sacrifice]]