# For

Paul uses this word to begin his explanation of [Romans 13:2](./01.md) and to tell about what will result if the government condemns a person.

# rulers are not a terror

Rulers do not make good people afraid.

# to good deeds ... to evil deeds

People are identified with their "good deeds" or "evil deeds."

# Do you desire to be unafraid of the one in authority?

Paul uses this question to get people to think about what they need to do in order not to be afraid of rulers. AT: "Let me tell you how you can be unafraid of the ruler." (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-rquestion]])

# you will receive his approval

The government will say good things about people who do what is good.

# he does not carry the sword for no reason

You can translate this in a positive form. AT: "he carries the sword for a very good reason" or "he has the power to punish people, and he will punish people" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-litotes]])

# carry the sword

Roman governors carried a short sword as a symbol of their authority. (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metonymy]])

# an avenger for wrath

Here "wrath" represents the punishment people receive when they do evil deeds. AT: "a person who punishes people as an expression of the government's anger against evil" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metonymy]])

# not only because of the wrath, but also because of conscience

"not only so the government will not punish you, but also so you will have a clear conscience before God"

# translationWords

* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/ruler]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/evil]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/fear]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/authority]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/good]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/praise]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/servant]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/god]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/avenge]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/wrath]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/obey]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/conscience]]