# Let us

Paul includes his readers and other believers with himself. (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-inclusive]])

# Let us walk appropriately, as in the day

Paul speaks of living as true believers as if one were walking while it is day. AT: "Let us walk in a visible way knowing that everyone can see us" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metaphor]])

# in sexual immorality or in uncontrolled lust

These concepts mean basically the same thing. You can combine them in your translation. AT: "sexually immoral acts" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-doublet]])

# strife

This refers to plotting against and arguing with other people.

# jealousy

This refers to negative feelings against another person's success or advantage over others.

# put on the Lord Jesus Christ

Paul speaks of accepting the moral nature of Christ as if he were our outer clothing that people can see. (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metaphor]])

# put on

If your language has a plural form for commands, use it here.

# make no provision for the flesh

Here the "flesh" refers to the self-directed nature of people who oppose God. This is the sinful nature of human beings. AT: "do not allow your old evil heart any opportunity at all for doing wicked things" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metonymy]])

# translationWords

* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/walk]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/fornication]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/strife]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/jealous]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/lord]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/jesus]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/flesh]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/lust]]