# Connecting Statement:

Paul writes that he is honest in his ministry by preaching Christ, not praising himself. He shows the death and the life of Jesus in how he lives so that life can work in the Corinthian believers.

# we have this ministry

Here the word "we" refers to Paul and his coworker, but not to the Corinthians. (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-exclusive]])

# and just as we have received mercy

This phrase explains how Paul and his coworkers "have this ministry." It is a gift that God has given to them through his mercy. AT: "because God has shown us mercy" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-explicit]])

# we have rejected secret and shameful ways

This means that that Paul and his coworkers refused to do "secret and shameful" things. It does not mean that they had done these things in the past.

# secret and shameful ways

The word "secret" describes the things that people do secretly. Things that are shameful should cause people who do them to feel ashamed. AT: "the things that people do secretly because they cause shame" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-hendiadys]])

# live by craftiness

"live by deception"

# we do not mishandle the word of God

"Word of God" here is a metonym for the message from God. This phrase uses two negative thoughts to express a positive thought. AT: "we do not mishandle God's message" or "we use the word of God correctly" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-doublenegatives]] and [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metonymy]])

# we recommend ourselves to everyone's conscience

This means that they provide enough evidence for each person who hears them to decide whether they are right or wrong.

# in the sight of God

This refers to God's presence. God's understanding and approval of Paul's truthfulness is referred to as God being able to see them. AT: "before God" or "with God as witness" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metaphor]])

# translationWords

* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/minister]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/receive]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/mercy]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/shame]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/life]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/wordofgod]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/true]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/conscience]]