# But we have

Here the word "we" refers to Paul and his coworkers, but not to the Corinthians. (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-exclusive]])

# we have this treasure in jars of clay

Paul speaks of the gospel as if it were a treasure and their bodies as if they were breakable jars made out of clay. This emphasizes that they are of little value compared to the worth of the gospel that they preach. (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metaphor]])

# so that it is clear

"so that it is clear to people" or "so that people clearly know"

# We are afflicted in every way

This can be stated in active form. AT: "People afflict us in every way" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-activepassive]])

# We are persecuted but not forsaken

This can be stated in active form. AT: "People persecute us but God does not forsake us" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-activepassive]])

# We are struck down but not destroyed

This can be stated in active form. AT: "People strike us down but do not destroy us" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-activepassive]])

# We are struck down

"We are hurt badly"

# We always carry in our body the death of Jesus

Paul speaks of his sufferings as if they are an experience of the death of Jesus. AT: "We are often in danger of dying, as Jesus died" or "We always suffer in such a way that we experience the death of Jesus" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metaphor]])

# the life of Jesus also may be shown in our bodies

Possible meanings are 1) "our bodies will live again, because Jesus is alive" or 2) "the spiritual life that Jesus gives also may be shown in our bodies."

# the life of Jesus also may be shown in our bodies

This can be stated in active form. AT: "other people may see the life of Jesus in our bodies" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-activepassive]])

# translationWords

* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/power]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/afflict]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/persecute]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/forsaken]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/death]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/life]]