# Connecting Statement:

Paul writes that the Corinthian difficulties are minor and do not last long when compared to the unseen eternal things.

# So we do not become discouraged

This can be stated as a positive. AT: "So we remain confident" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-doublenegatives]])

# outwardly we are wasting away

This refers to their physical bodies decaying and dying. AT: "our physical bodies are getting weak and dying" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-explicit]])

# inwardly we are being renewed day by day

This refers to their inward, spiritual lives getting stronger. AT: "our spiritual beings are being strengthened day by day" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-explicit]])

# inwardly we are being renewed day by day

This can be stated in active form. AT: "God is renewing our inward being more each day" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-activepassive]])

# this momentary, light affliction is preparing us for an eternal weight of glory

Paul speaks of his sufferings and the glory that God will give him as if they were objects that can be weighed. The glory far outweighs the suffering. (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metaphor]])

# that exceeds all measurement

The glory that Paul will experience is so heavy that no one can measure it. This can be stated in active form. AT: "that no one can measure" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metaphor]] and [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-activepassive]])

# things that are seen ... things that are unseen

This can be stated in active form. AT: "things that we can see ... things that we cannot see" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-activepassive]])

# but for things that are unseen

You can supply the verb for this phrase. AT "but we are watching for things that are unseen" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-ellipsis]])

# translationWords

* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/afflict]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/eternity]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/glory]]