# General Information:

Job continues to speak.

# My spirit is consumed

Job refers to himself by his "spirit" to emphasize his inner emotions. He speaks of not having any strength left as if he were something that has been used up. AT: "I am consumed" or "I have lost all of my strength" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-synecdoche]] and [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metaphor]])

# my days are over

"my time is over" or "I am going to die soon"

# the grave is ready for me

This phrase describes "the grave" as if it is a person who will receive Job as a guest. AT: "soon I will be dead and buried" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-personification]])

# Surely there are mockers with me

"Those who are around me are mocking me"

# Surely

"Certainly" or "There is no doubt that"

# my eye must always see

Job refers to himself by his "eyes" to emphasize what he sees. AT: "I must always see" or "I must always hear" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-synecdoche]])

# their provocation

"their insults." The word "provocation" can be expressed as a verb. AT: "them provoking me" or "them, trying to make me angry" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-abstractnouns]])

# Give now a pledge, be a guarantee for me with yourself

Job begins to speak to God. Here he speaks of his situation as if he were in prison. He is asking God to provide a pledge so that he may be released. AT: "God, give now a pledge so that I may be released from this prison" or "pay for my release from prison" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metaphor]])

# who else is there who will help me?

Job uses this rhetorical question to emphasize that there is no one else to help him. This question can be written as a statement. AT: "there is no one else who will help me." (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-rquestion]])

# translationWords

* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/spirit]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/consume]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/tomb]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/mock]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/pledge]]