# General Information:

Job continues to speak.

# he has made me a byword of the people

This means that people speak of him in a mocking way and use his name as an insult. AT: "because of him, people use my name as an insult" or "because of them, people use my name as a byword" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-explicit]])

# they spit in my face

"people spit in my face." In this culture spitting on someone was a great insult. If spitting has a different meaning in your culture you can write this differently. AT: "people insult me greatly, by spitting in my face" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/translate-symaction]])

# My eye is also dim because of sorrow

Job speaks of his vision as his "eyes." AT: "My vision has become weak because I am so sad" or "I am almost blind because of my sorrow" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metonymy]])

# all my body parts are as thin as shadows

Shadows have no thickness and are infinitely thin. That is an exaggeration of how thin Job's body parts are. AT: "all my body parts are very thin" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-simile]] and [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-hyperbole]])

# all my body parts

This is a generalization used to emphasize that his whole body is thin, but refers specifically to his arms and legs. AT: "my arms and legs" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-hyperbole]])

# stunned

"shocked" or "horrified"

# by this

"by what has happened to me"

# will stir himself up against

This is an idiom. AT: "will be distressed because of" or "will be very angry with" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-idiom]])

# translationWords

* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/upright]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/innocent]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/godly]]