# General Information:

God continues to talk to Jacob in a dream.

# Your descendants will be like the dust of the earth

God compares Jacob's descendants to the dust of the earth to emphasize their huge number. AT: "You will have more descendants than you can count" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-simile]])

# you will spread far out to the west

The word "you" is singular and refers to Jacob. Here Jacob represents his descendants. AT: "your descendants will spread out to the west" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metonymy]])

# you will spread far out

This means the people will extend the borders of their land and occupy more territory.

# to the west, to the east, to the north, and to the south

This phrases are used together to mean "all directions." AT: "in all directions" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-synecdoche]])

# Through you and through your descendants will all the families of the earth be blessed

This can be stated in active form. AT: "I will bless all families on the earth through you and your descendants" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-activepassive]])

# Behold

This adds emphasis to what is said next. AT: "Look" or "Listen" or "Pay attention to what I am about to tell you"

# for I will not leave you. I will do all

"for I will not leave you until I have done all"

# I will keep you

"I will keep you safe" or "I will protect you"

# I will bring you into this land again

"I will bring you back to this land"

# translationWords

* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/descendant]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/bless]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/promise]]