# General Information:

Yahweh is telling Ezekiel to speak to the mountains as if they were people so that the people of Israel would hear the words and know that Ezekiel's words were for them. (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-apostrophe]])

# The word of Yahweh came

This is an idiom that is used to introduce something that God told his prophets or his people. See how you translated this in [Ezekiel 3:16](../03/16.md). AT: "Yahweh spoke this message" or "Yahweh spoke these words" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-idiom]])

# Son of man

"Son of a human being" or "Son of humanity." God calls Ezekiel this to emphasize that Ezekiel is only a human being. God is eternal and powerful, but humans are not. See how you translated this in [Ezekiel 2:1](../02/01.md). AT: "Mortal person" or "Human"

# set your face against the mountains of Israel

This is a command to stare at the mountains as a symbol of punishing the people there. See how you translated a similar phrase in [Ezekiel 4:3](../04/01.md). AT: "stare at the mountains of Israel" or "stare at the mountains of Israel so that the people there will be harmed" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/translate-symaction]])

# set your face against the mountains of Israel

The mountains of Israel were far away, so Ezekiel could not see them, but staring in that direction would be a symbol of harming it. AT: "turn toward the mountains of Israel and stare" or "stare toward the mountains of Israel so that the people there will be harmed" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/translate-symaction]])

# set your face

Here "face" is a metonym for attention or gaze. (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metonymy]])

# the mountains of Israel

"the mountains in the land of Israel"

# Behold!

"Look!" or "Listen!" or "Pay attention to what I am about to tell you!"

# Lord Yahweh

See how you translated this in [Ezekiel 2:4](../02/04.md).

# I am bringing a sword against you

The word "sword" is a metonym for soldiers who kill people using swords. AT: "I am bringing soldiers to come and kill you" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metonymy]])

# translationWords

* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/wordofgod]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/sonofman]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/face]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/israel]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/prophet]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/lordyahweh]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/sword]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/highplaces]]