# General Information:

Yahweh continues to speak to Ezekiel.

# The Lord Yahweh says this

Yahweh speaks of himself by name to remind Ezekiel and the people that what he is saying is important. AT: "I, the Lord Yahweh, say this" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-123person]])

# Lord Yahweh

See how you translated this in [Ezekiel 2:4](../02/04.md).

# Clap your hands and stomp your foot

Ezekiel was to do this symbolic action to get the people's attention. This was not applause. (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/writing-symlanguage]])

# Alas

This word is spoken by those who see people doing bad things and realize that bad things will happen to the evildoers as a result. If your language has a similar word, you might want to use it here.

# the house of Israel

The word "house" is a metonym for the family that lives in the house, in this case the Israelites, the descendants of Jacob over many years. See how you translated this in [Ezekiel 3:1](../03/01.md). AT: "the Israelites" or "the Israelite people group" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metonymy]])

# they will fall by sword, famine, and plague.

To "fall" is a euphemism for to "die." The word "sword" is a metonym for soldiers who kill people using swords. AT:

# I will accomplish my fury against them

"I will satisfy my anger against them" or "I will punish them until I am no longer angry"

# translationWords

* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/lordyahweh]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/evil]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/abomination]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/house]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/famine]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/plague]]