# Stand back!

"Step aside!" or "Get out of our way!"

# This one came here to live as a foreigner

"This one came here as an outsider" or "This foreigner came to live here"

# This one

"Lot." The men are speaking to each other. If this would be unclear in your language, you may have the men speak to Lot here, as in UDB.

# and now

The speaker would not expect a foreigner to judge the people of that land. Alternate translation: "but even though he has no good reason to" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-idiom]])

# he has become our judge

Here "has become our judge" is an idiom that means Lot is acting as if he can tell the men what actions are right or wrong. Alternate translation: "he acts as if he has the authority to tell us what is right and what is wrong" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-idiom]])

# Now we

"Because you are telling us that what we are doing is wrong, we"

# we will deal worse with you than with them

The men are angry that Lot said, "Do not act so wickedly" ([Genesis 19:7](../19/07.md)), so they are threatening to act more wickedly than Lot had feared at first. Alternate translation: "we will act more wickedly with you than we will with them" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-idiom]])

# They pressed hard against the man, against Lot, and came near to break down the door

Possible meanings are 1) "They kept coming closer to the man, to Lot, until they were close enough to break down the door" or 2) they physically pushed Lot up against the wall or door of the house and were about to break the door down.

# the man ... Lot

This is two ways of referring to Lot.

