# But he lingered

"But Lot hesitated" or "But Lot did not start to leave"

# So the men grabbed

"So the two men grabbed" or "So the angels grabbed"

# was merciful to him

"had compassion on Lot." Yahweh is described as being "merciful" because he was sparing the lives of Lot and his family instead of destroying them when he destroyed the people of Sodom for the wrong they had done.

# When they had brought them out

"When the two men had brought Lot's family out"

# Run for your lives!

This is a way of telling them to run so that they do not die. AT: "Run away and save your lives!" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-idiom]])

# Do not look back

The phrase "at the city" is understood. AT: "Do not look back at the city" or "Do not look back at Sodom" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-ellipsis]])

# on the plain

This means the plain of the Jordan River. This refers to the general region of the Jordan River.

# so you are not swept away

It is understood that they would swept away with the people of the city. This can be stated in active form. AT: "or else God will destroy you along with the people of the city" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-ellipsis]] and [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-activepassive]])

# not swept away

God destroying the people of the city is spoken of as if a person were sweeping away dust. (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metaphor]])

# translationWords

* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/yahweh]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/mercy]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/sweep]]