# Your servant has found favor in your eyes

The phrase "found favor" is an idiom which means to be approved of by someone. Here "eyes" are a metonym for sight, and  sight is a metaphor representing his evaluation. AT: "You have been pleased with me" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-idiom]] and [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metonymy]] and [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metaphor]])

# Your servant has

Lot was showing respect by referring to himself as "your servant." AT: "I, your servant, have" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-123person]])

# you have shown me great kindness in saving my life

The abstract noun "kindness" can be stated as "kind." AT: "you have been very kind to me by saving my life" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-abstractnouns]])

# I cannot escape to the mountains, because the disaster will overtake me, and I will die

Being unable to get far enough away from Sodom when God destroys the city is spoken of as if "disaster" is a person that will chase and catch up with Lot. AT: "My family and I will certainly die when God destroys the people of Sodom, because the mountains are too far away for us to get there safely" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-personification]])

# my life ... I cannot escape ... overtake me, and I will die

It is implied that Lot's family would die along with him. AT: "our lives ... we cannot escape ... overtake us, and we will die" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-explicit]])

# let me escape there (is it not a little one?), and my life will be saved

Lot used this rhetorical question to get the angels to notice that the city really is a small one. AT: "let me escape there. You can see how small it is. If you let us go there we will live" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-rquestion]])

# let me escape there

Lot's full request can be made explicit. AT: "instead of destroying that city, let me escape there" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-explicit]])

# my life will be saved

It is implied that the lives of Lot's family will be saved along with his. This can also be stated in active form. AT: "so that we will live" or "so that we will survive" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-explicit]] and [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-activepassive]])