# How blessed are your people

This is an exclamation that shows her amazement. AT: "Your people are greatly blessed" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-exclamations]])

# how blessed are your servants who constantly stand before you

This is an exclamation that shows her amazement. AT: "your servants who constantly stand before you are greatly blessed" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-exclamations]])

# they hear your wisdom

Hear "wisdom" represents the wise things that he says. AT: "they hear the wise things that you say" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metonymy]])

# who has taken pleasure in you, who placed you on his throne

These phrases tell why people should praise Yahweh. AT: "because he has taken pleasure in you and placed you on his throne" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-distinguish]])

# who has taken pleasure in you

"who is pleased with you"

# who placed you on his throne, to be king for Yahweh your God

The idea of being on Yahweh's throne represents having the authority to rule as Yahweh does. Being king "for Yahweh" means to represent Yahweh as king. AT: "who gave you authority to rule as he does, to represent Yahweh your God as king" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metonymy]])

# in order to establish them forever

Possible meanings are 1) "establish" represents helping them in general. AT: "in order to help them forever" or 2) "establish" represents making them strong as a nation. AT: "in order to make them a nation forever" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metaphor]])

# for you to do justice and righteousness

The abstract nouns "justice" and "righteousness" can be expressed with the words "fairly" and "righteously." AT: "for you to rule fairly and righteously" or "for you to do what is just and right" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-abstractnouns]])

# translationWords

* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/bless]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/peoplegroup]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/yahweh]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/god]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/throne]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/king]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/israel]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/eternity]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/justice]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/righteous]]