# Paul

Your language may have a particular way of introducing the author of a letter. You may also need to tell in this same verse who the people are to whom Paul wrote the letter ([Romans 1:7](./07.md)). AT: "I, Paul, wrote this letter" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-explicit]])

# called to be an apostle, and set apart for the gospel of God

You can translate this in an active form. AT: "God called me to be an apostle and chose me to tell people about the gospel" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-activepassive]])

# called

This means that God has appointed or chosen people to be his children, to be his servants and proclaimers of his message of salvation through Jesus.

# This is the gospel that he promised beforehand by his prophets in the holy scriptures

God promised his people that he would set up his kingdom. He told the prophets to write these promises in the Scriptures.

# It is about his Son

This refers to "the gospel of God," the good news that God promised to send his Son into the world.

# Son

This is an important title for Jesus, the Son of God. (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/guidelines-sonofgodprinciples]])

# who was born from the descendants of David according to the flesh

Here the word "flesh" refers to the physical body. AT: "who is a descendant of David according to the physical nature" or "who was born into the family of David" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-explicit]])

# translationWords

* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/paul]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/servant]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/jesus]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/call]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/apostle]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/setapart]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/goodnews]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/god]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/promise]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/prophet]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/holy]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/wordofgod]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/sonofgod]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/descendant]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/david]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/flesh]]