# Connecting Statement:

Paul talks here about his obligation to preach.

# By resurrection from the dead

"by raising him from among the people who are dead." This expression speaks of all dead people together in the underworld, and coming alive again is spoken of as resurrection from among them.

# he was declared the Son of God

The word "he" refers to Jesus Christ. You can translate this in an active form. AT: "God declared him to be the Son of God" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-activepassive]])

# Spirit of holiness

This refers to the Holy Spirit.

# we have received grace and apostleship

God has given Paul the gift of being an apostle. You can translate this in an active form. AT: "God caused me to be an apostle. This is a special privilege" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-activepassive]])

# we

Here the word "we" refers to Paul and to the apostles that followed Jesus but excludes the believers in the church in Rome. (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-exclusive]])

# for obedience of faith among all the nations, for the sake of his name

Paul uses the word "name" as a metonym to refer to Jesus. AT: "in order to teach all nations to obey because of their faith in him" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metonymy]])

# translationWords

* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/power]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/sonofgod]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/holyspirit]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/jesus]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/lord]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/grace]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/apostle]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/obey]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/faith]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/nation]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/name]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/call]]