# I am not ashamed of the gospel

You can translate this in a positive form. AT: "I trust completely in the gospel" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-litotes]])

# it is the power of God for salvation for everyone who believes

Here "believes" means that one puts his trust in Christ. AT: "it is through the gospel that God powerfully saves those who put their trust in Christ" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-explicit]])

# for the Jew first and for the Greek

"for Jewish people and also for Greek people"

# first

Here "first" means coming before all others in order of time.

# For in it

Here "it" refers to the gospel. Paul explains why he completely trusts in the gospel.

# God's righteousness is revealed from faith to faith

Paul speaks about the gospel message as if it were an object that God could physically show to people. You can translate this in an active form. AT: "God has told us that it is by faith from beginning to end that people become righteous" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-activepassive]])

# as it has been written

You can translate this in an active form. AT: "as someone has written in the Scriptures" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-activepassive]])

# The righteous will live by faith

Here "righteous" refers to those who trust in God. AT: "It is people who trust in God that he considers right with him, and they will live forever" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-explicit]])

# translationWords

* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/goodnews]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/power]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/save]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/believe]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/jew]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/names/greek]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/righteous]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/reveal]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/faith]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/written]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/life]]