# Connecting Statement:

Paul reveals God's great anger against sinful man.

# For the wrath of God is revealed

You can translate this in an active form. AT: "For God shows how angry he is" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-activepassive]])

# For

Paul uses the word "for" to show he is about to tell why people know that what he has said in [Romans 1:17](../16.md) is true.

# the wrath of God is revealed against all ungodliness and unrighteousness of people

The words "ungodliness" and "unrighteousness" are abstract nouns that can be expressed using the adjectives "ungodly," which describes the people, and "unrighteous," which describes their deeds. These nouns are metonyms for the people with whom God is angry. You can translate this in active form. AT: "God reveals how angry he is with people because they are ungodly and do unrighteous deeds" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-abstractnouns]] and [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metonomy]])

# hold back the truth

Here "truth" refers to true information about God. AT: "hide the true information about God" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-explicit]])

# that which is known about God is visible to them

You can translate this in an active form. AT: "they can know about God because of what they can plainly see" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-activepassive]])

# For God has enlightened them

Here "enlightened them" means God has shown them the truth about him. AT: "Because God has shown everyone what he is like" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-explicit]])

# translationWords

* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/wrath]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/reveal]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/heaven]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/godly]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/righteous]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/true]]