# mountains of Abarim

This is a range of mountains in Moab. (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/translate-names]])

# that I have given to the people of Israel

Here Yahweh speaks about the land that his is giving the Israel as if he has already given it to them. He speaks this way to emphasize that his committed to give it to them. AT: "that I will give to the people of Israel" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metaphor]])

# you, too, must be gathered to your people

This is a euphemism that means Moses will die and his spirit will go to the place where his ancestors are. AT: "you must die" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-euphemism]])

# like Aaron your brother

You can make clear the understood information that Aaron died. AT: "like your older brother Aaron died" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-ellipsis]])

# you two rebelled

This refers to Moses and Aaron.

# wilderness of Zin

See how you translated this phrase in [Numbers 13:21](../13/21.md).

# when the water flowed from the rock, in your anger

This refers to an event when Yahweh made water miraculously flow out of a rock. God told Moses to speak to the rock. Instead, Moses hit the rock because he was angry with the people. (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-explicit]])

# you failed to honor me as holy

"you did not treat me as holy"

# before the eyes of the whole community

Here the people of the people are represented by their "eyes" to emphasize what they saw. AT: "in front of the whole community" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-synecdoche]])

# waters of Meribah

See how you translated this phrase in [Numbers 20:13](../20/12.md).

# translationWords

* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/yahweh]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/moses]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/aaron]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/rebel]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/command]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/desert]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/honor]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/holy]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/kadesh]]