# all Israel came to David

This is a generalization that means people from every tribe in Israel came to David, but not every individual. AT: "people from throughout Israel came to David" or "people from every tribe in Israel came to David" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-hyperbole]])

# we are your flesh and bone

This idiom means that they are relatives. AT: "we are your relatives" or "we have the same ancestors as you" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-idiom]])

# In the recent past

This is historical information. Saul had been their king before David. (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/writing-background]])

# You will shepherd my people Israel, and you will become a ruler over my people Israel

These two clauses mean basically the same thing and emphasize that Yahweh had chosen David to be king. (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-parallelism]])

# You will shepherd my people Israel

Here ruling over the people is spoken of as shepherding them. AT: "'You will care for my people Israel" or "You will lead my people Israel" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metaphor]])

# They anointed David king over Israel

To "anoint" is a symbolic act to show that they recognized that God had chosen David as king. (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/translate-symaction]])

# the word of Yahweh that had been declared by Samuel

This can be stated in active form. AT: "the word of Yahweh that Samuel had declared" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-activepassive]])

# translationWords

* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/israel]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/david]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/hebron]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/flesh]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/saul]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/king]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/yahweh]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/god]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/shepherd]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/peopleofgod]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/ruler]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/elder]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/covenant]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/anoint]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/true]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/wordofgod]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/samuel]]