# this is the Lord Yahweh's declaration

Yahweh speaks of himself by name to express the certainty of what he is declaring. See how you translated this in [Ezekiel 5:11](../05/11.md). AT: "this is what the Lord Yahweh has declared" or "this is what I, the Lord Yahweh, have declared" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-123person]])

# My hand will be against the prophets

Here the word "hand" represents Yahweh's power. That his hand will be against them is a metaphor that means that he will punish them with his power. AT: "I will punish the prophets" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metonymy]] and [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metaphor]])

# They will not be in the assembly of my people

This means that Yahweh will not consider these false prophets to be part of the people of Israel.

# or enrolled in the record of the house of Israel

This probably refers to an official record of the citizens of Israel. This can be stated in active form. AT: "nor will anyone enroll their names in the record of the house of Israel" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-activepassive]])

# the house of Israel

The word "house" is a metonym for the family that lives in the house, in this case the Israelites, the descendants of Jacob over many years. See how you translated this in [Ezekiel 3:1](../03/16.md). AT: "the Israelite people group" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metonymy]])

# know that I am the Lord Yahweh

When Yahweh says that people will know that he is Yahweh, he is implying that they will know that he is the one true God who has supreme authority and power. See how you translated this in [Ezekiel 6:7](../06/06.md). AT: "understand that I am the Lord Yahweh, the one true God" or "realize that I, the Lord Yahweh, have supreme power and authority" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-explicit]])