# General Information:

In these verses, Yahweh speaks of the false security that the prophets have given to the people by speaking of peace as if the prophets had built a poorly-constructed wall and covered it over with white paint in order to make it look good. (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metaphor]])

# Because of this

The word "this" refers to the prophets reporting false visions to the people and telling them lies.

# they led my people astray

Yahweh speaks of the prophets deceiving the people and getting them to believe lies as if the prophets had led the people away from the path upon which they should have been walking. (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metaphor]])

# they are building a wall that they will paint with whitewash

Here "a wall" stands for peace and security that the false prophets told the people that Yahweh was promising to give them. (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metaphor]])

# whitewash ... whitewashing

The word "whitewash" refers to a white liquid mixture or paint used to cover up impurities and make surfaces white.

# I will send hailstones to make it fall down, and a windstorm wind to break it down

Yahweh refers to the judgment that he will send upon the people as if it were a severe storm that breaks down the wall. (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metaphor]])

# hailstones

balls of ice that sometimes falls from the sky during a rainstorm.

# Have others not said to you, "Where is the whitewash that you put on it?"

Yahweh asks this rhetorical question to emphasize that others will ask the prophets what happened to their whitewash. AT: "Others will certainly say to you, 'Where is the whitewash that you put on it?'" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-rquestion]])

# Where is the whitewash that you put on it?

Possible meanings are 1) that this is an honest question for which the people expect and answer or 2) this is a rhetorical question that the people ask out of sarcasm. AT: "The whitewash that you put on it did no good." (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-rquestion]])