# set your face against the daughters

This is a command to stare at the women as a symbol of punishing them. Translate "set your face against" as you did in [Ezekiel 4:3](../04/01.md). AT: "stare at the daughters" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/translate-symaction]])

# set your face against

Here "face" is a metonym for attention or gaze, and "set your face" represents staring. AT: "stare at" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metonymy]])

# daughters of your people

This idiom refers to women who belong to the same people group as Ezekiel does. AT: "women of Israel" or "your countrywomen" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-idiom]])

# prophesy out of their own minds

"prophesying only the things that they think in their own minds." See how you translated a similar phrase in [Ezekiel 13:2](./01.md).

# prophesy against

"prophesy about the bad things that will happen to them." See how you translated this in [Ezekiel 4:7](../04/06.md).

# sew magic charms onto every part of their hand

This means that they sew magic charms together and then attach them to their hands, not that they sew them directly onto their hands.

# charms

objects believed to have magical powers.

# used to hunt down people

Yahweh speaks of these women using beauty, mystery, and lies to deceive people as if the people were animals that the women hunted down and trapped with their charms. This can be stated in active form. AT: "that they use to hunt down people" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metaphor]] and [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-activepassive]])

# make veils for their heads of every size

This means that they make veils to put on the heads of people of different height. AT: "make veils for the heads of women of every stature" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-explicit]])

# Will you hunt down my people but save your own lives?

Yahweh asks this as a leading question to rebuke the women who do these things. The implicit answer is, "no." AT: "Do not think that you will be able to save your own lives after you have hunted down my people!" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-rquestion]])

# translationWords

* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/sonofman]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/face]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/peoplegroup]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/prophet]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/mind]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/lordyahweh]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/woe]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/magic]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/veil]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/save]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/life]]