## Woe ##

This word marks the beginning of God's announcement about a severe punishment against Assyria.

## the Assyrian ##

This refers to the king of Assyria. Alternate translation: "king of Assyria."

## the club of my anger, the rod by whom I wield my fury ##

Both of these phrases mean basically the same thing. Yahweh compares the king of Assyria to a weapon a person holds in his hand and hits other people with it. It emphasizes that the king of Assyria and his army are a tool that Yahweh uses to punish Israel. Alternate translation: "He will be like a weapon in my hands and I will use it to show my anger. (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-parallelism]] and [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metaphor]])

## I send him…I order him ##

The word "him" here also refers to the king of Assyria. But it does not mean God is only sending the king. He is sending the army of Assyria. Alternate translation: "I send the army of Assyria...I order them." (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-synecdoche]])

## against an arrogant nation and against the people who bear my overflowing wrath ##

"to attack a nation full of proud people that have made me very angry"

## to take the spoil ##

"to take everything they have"

## to take the prey ##

to take the people like prey. "See how you translated "prey" in [Isaiah 5:29](../05/29.md).

## and to trample them like mud in the streets ##

Yahweh compares the army of Assyria attacking Israel to people stomping through the mud. This emphasizes the power of the army and Israel will not have the power to stop them. (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-simile]])