# Will the ax boast about itself against the one who wields it? Will the saw praise itself more than the one who cuts with it?

The speaker uses these questions to mock the king of Assyria. AT: "An ax cannot boast that it is better than the one who holds it. And a saw does not get more glory than the one who cuts with it." (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-rquestion]])

# the saw

a sharp tool used for cutting wood

# It is as if a rod could lift up those who raise it, or as if a wooden club could lift up a person

These phrases mean basically the same thing and are used to strengthen the meaning of the two questions before it. This can be translated as a new sentence. AT: "And neither can a rod or staff lift the person who picks it up" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-parallelism]])

# Therefore the Lord Yahweh of hosts will send emaciation among his elite warriors

It is unclear whether Yahweh or Isaiah is speaking. This can be reworded so that the abstract noun "emaciation" is expressed as the verb "make weak." AT: "Therefore I, Lord Yahweh of hosts, will make the king's strongest soldiers weak" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-abstractnouns]])

# under his glory there will be kindled a burning like fire

Yahweh compares his punishment to a fire. This emphasizes that his punishment will completely destroy all the splendor and greatness of the kingdom of Assyria. AT: "I will destroy his greatness as if I were starting a fire to burn everything he is proud of" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-simile]])