# Yahweh of hosts

See how you translated this in [Isaiah 1:9](../01/09.md).

# will wield a whip against them

"will beat the Assyrians with a whip." God will not really use a whip. This refers to God's power to punish the Assyrians severely. AT: "will punish the Assyrians severely as if with a whip" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metaphor]])

# as when he defeated Midian at the rock of Oreb

This refers to when God helped a man named Gideon defeat the army of Midian. (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/translate-names]])

# He will raise his rod over the sea and lift it up as he did in Egypt

This speaks of God rescuing the people from the Assyrians as if they were the Egyptian army. This refers to when God caused the water of the Red Sea to split so the people of Israel could escape from the Egyptian army and so that the Egyptian army would drown in it. AT: "He will help you escape from the army of Assyria as he helped your ancestors escape the army of Egypt" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metaphor]])

# his burden is lifted from your shoulder and his yoke from off your neck

"Yahweh will lift the burden that Assyria has put on your shoulder, and he will remove the yoke that they have put on your neck." These two phrases mean basically the same thing. The words "burden" and "yoke" refer to slavery. This can be stated in active form. AT: "Yahweh will remove the Assyrians who oppress you and will stop them from making you their slaves" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-activepassive]] and [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-parallelism]] and [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metonymy]])

# the yoke will be destroyed because of fatness

This expression suggests that the neck of the animal that is wearing the yoke will become too fat to fit the yoke any longer. This is a metaphor for Israel becoming so strong that the Assyrians can no longer rule them. This can be stated in active form. AT: "your neck will become so fat that it will break the yoke" or "you will become so strong that you will no longer be the Assyrians' slaves" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-activepassive]] and [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metaphor]])

# translationWords

* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/yahwehofhosts]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/midian]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/yoke]]