# Gilead stayed

Here "Gilead" the men from Gilead who should have gone to fight in battle. AT: "The men of Gilead stayed" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metonymy]])

# the other side of the Jordan

This refers to the east side of the Jordan. (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-explicit]])

# Dan, why did he wander about on ships?

This question is asked to express anger because the people of the tribe of Dan would not fight for Israel. AT: "the men of Dan should not have remained on their ships!" or "the people of the tribe of Dan did not help us in the battle. Instead they were wandering around on the sea in ships!" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-rquestion]] and [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-explicit]])

# Dan, why did he

Here "Dan" represents the men from Dan who should have gone to fight in battle. AT: "the men of Dan, why did they" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metonymy]])

# wander about on ships

The tribe of Dan was located near the Mediterranean sea. They sailed on the sea to make money through trade and fishing. (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-explicit]])

# Asher remained on the coast and lived close to his harbors

The full meaning of this statement can be made explicit. AT: "The people of the tribe of Asher also failed to help us, they just remained on the coast near their harbors" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-explicit]])

# Asher remained

Here "Asher" represents the men who should have gone to fight in battle. AT: "The men of Asher remained" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metonymy]])

# harbors

places at the seacoast with deeper water where ships were kept

# Naphtali, also

You can make clear the understood information. AT: "Naphtali was a tribe who would also risk their lives to the point of death" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-ellipsis]])

# translationWords

* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/gilead]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/jordanriver]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/dan]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/asher]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/zebulun]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/tribe]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/death]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/naphtali]]