# General Information:

In verses 3:6-7, Yahweh rebukes the people of Jerusalem because they did not learn from how he judged other sinful cities. It may be helpful to add "Yahweh says this:" to the beginning of verse 6 to make this explicit. (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-explicit]])

# I have made their streets ruins, so that no one passes over them. Their cities are destroyed so that there is no man inhabiting them

These two sentences express the same idea in two different ways in order to emphasize the complete destruction of the cities. (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-parallelism]])

# no one passes over them

"no one walks on them"

# there is no man inhabiting them

"no one lives there." This can be stated in positive form. AT: "all the people are dead"

# I said, 'Surely you will fear me ... I have planned to do to you.'

This can be stated as an indirect quotation. AT: "I thought they would surely fear me and accept correction so that they would not be cut off from their homes by all that I have planned to do to them." (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-quotations]])

# and do not be cut off from your homes

Here "cut off" is an idiom that means to be removed. This can be stated in active form. AT: "so that I will not remove you from your homes" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-idiom]] and [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-activepassive]])

# by corrupting all their deeds

"by doing deeds that were corrupt"

# translationWords

* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/nation]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/stronghold]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/ruin]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/fear]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/cutoff]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/corrupt]]