# General Information:

In verse 3:8, Yahweh warns that he will judge all nations.

# wait for me ... until the day

This phrase implies that they are waiting for judgment.

# this is Yahweh's declaration

Yahweh speaks of himself by name to express the certainty of what he is declaring. AT: "this is what Yahweh has declared" or "this is what I, Yahweh, have declared" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-123person]])

# I rise up to seize the prey

Yahweh's judgment on the nations is spoken of as if he was an hungry animal that attacked a smaller animal. AT: "I will rise up and destroy them as an animal seizes its prey" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metaphor]])

# to assemble the nations, to gather the kingdoms

These two phrases mean the same thing and emphasize that Yahweh will judge all of the nations. (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-doublet]])

# my anger—all of my burning wrath

The words "anger" and "burning wrath" mean basically the same thing and emphasize the intensity of Yahweh's anger. AT: "my very fierce wrath" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-doublet]])

# in the fire of my jealousy all the earth will be consumed

This phrase can be stated in active form. AT: "the fire of my jealousy will devour all the land" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-activepassive]])

# in the fire of my jealousy ... consumed

Yahweh's jealousy is here spoken of as if it were fire that could consume something. This can be stated as a simile. AT: "my jealousy will consume all the earth as a fire" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metaphor]] and [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-simile]])

