# General Information:

In verses 3:14-20, Zephaniah tells the remnant of Israel who survived the judgment that they should rejoice.

# daughter of Zion ... daughter of Jerusalem

Here "daughter" refers to all the people who lived in the city. (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-idiom]])

# Be glad and rejoice

These two phrases mean the same thing and emphasize how happy they should be. AT: "Be very happy" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-doublet]])

# with all your heart

Here "heart" refers to the inner being of a person. AT: "with all your inner being" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metonymy]])

# Yahweh has taken away your punishment

Here to "take away" punishment is an idiom that means to stop doing it. AT: "Yahweh has stopped punishing you" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-idiom]])

# You will never again fear evil

The abstract noun "evil" can be stated as an action. AT: "You will no longer be afraid that people will harm you" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-abstractnouns]])

# In that day

"At that time" or "When this happens." This phrase here refers to the time of peace and restoration that immediately follows the day of Yahweh.

# say to Jerusalem ... Zion

The names of these cities here refer to the people who live in them. AT: "say to the people of Jerusalem ... people of Zion" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metonymy]])

# Do not let your hands falter

To feel weak or helpless is spoken of as if their hands became physically weak. Here "hands" represents the whole person. AT: "Do not become weak" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metaphor]] and [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-synecdoche]])