# General Information:

In verses 3:19-20, Yahweh speaks directly to the remnant of Israel who survived the judgment and tells them that they should rejoice.

# Behold

This tells the reader to pay special attention to what follows. AT: "Look" or "Pay attention"

# I am about to deal with all your oppressors

It is understood that "deal with" means to punish the oppressors. This can be stated explicitly. AT: "I will severely punish all those who oppressed you" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-explicit]])

# I will rescue the lame and gather up the outcast

Here the Israelites who suffered in exile are spoken of as if they were lame and outcast sheep. This can be stated as a simile. AT: "I will rescue and bring together the remnant of Israel who are like lame and outcast sheep" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metaphor]] and [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-simile]])

# the lame

This refers to people or animals that cannot walk.

# I will make them as praise

The full thought here is, "I will make them to be objects of praise," that is, "I will make them to be praised by others." (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-simile]])

# I will change their shame into renown

The abstract nouns "shame" and "renown" can be stated as actions. AT: "I will cause them to no longer be ashamed, but for people to respect them" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-abstractnouns]])

# At that time I will lead you; at that time I will gather you together

These two lines mean basically the same thing and imply that Yahweh will bring the exiled people back to their homeland. AT: "At that time I will gather you together and lead you home" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-parallelism]])

# translationWords

* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/earth]]