# General Information:

The young woman's lover continues describing the one he loves.

# Your navel is like a round bowl

A bowl is round. The woman's navel is round. (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-simile]])

# navel

the spot on the stomach left from the cord that attaches a baby to its mother

# may it never lack mixed wine

People used large bowls to mix wine with water or spices at feasts. Drinking wine is a metaphor for enjoying beauty. The litotes can be translated as a positive. Alternate translation: "may it always contain mixed wine" or "may I always enjoy its beauty" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metaphor]] and [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-litotes]])

# Your belly is like a mound of wheat encircled with lilies

The Israelites thought mounds of wheat and lilies were pleasant to look at. Much wheat was a sign that there would be much food to eat. They threshed wheat in high, dry places, and lilies grow in low, wet places, so this simile combines beautiful sights that people would not usually see at the same time. (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-simile]])

# Your belly is like a mound of wheat

People thought that the color of wheat was the most beautiful color of skin and that round piles of wheat were beautiful. Alternate translation: "Your belly has a beautiful color and is round like a pile of wheat" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-simile]])

# a mound of wheat

This is a pile of the grains of wheat after people remove the parts of it that they do not use.

# encircled with lilies

"with lilies all around it"

# lilies

sweet-smelling flowers that grow in places where there is much water. Translate as the plural of "lily" in [Song of Songs 2:1](../02/01.md).

