# General Information:

The man continues describing the woman.

# two breasts

If the word "two" seems unnecessary and so out of place, you could omit it. See how you translated this in [Song of Solomon 4:5](../04/04.md).

# like two fawns, twins of a gazelle

The man implies that the woman's breasts are matching, soft, and perhaps small. See how you translated this in [Song of Solomon 4:5](../04/04.md). (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-simile]])

# twins

the babies of a mother who gave birth to two babies at one time. See how you translated this in [Song of Solomon 4:5](../04/04.md).

# gazelle

an animal that looks like a deer and moves quickly. Translate as the singular of "gazelles" as in [Song of Solomon 2:7](../02/07.md).

# Your neck is like a tower of ivory

A tower is long and straight. Ivory is white. The woman's neck is long and straight, and her skin is light in color. (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-simile]])

# a tower of ivory

"a tower that people have decorated with ivory"

# ivory

the white tusk or tooth of an animal that is similar to bone. People use ivory to make art and to make things look beautiful.

# your eyes are the pools in Heshbon

The woman's eyes are spoken of as if they are clear pools of water. Pools of water are clear and sparkle in the sunlight and so are pleasant to look at. The woman's eyes are clear and sparkle and so are pleasant to look at. This can be stated as a simile. AT: "your eyes are as clear as the pools in Heshbon" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metaphor]] and [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-simile]])

# Heshbon

the name of a city east of the Jordan River (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/translate-names]])

# Bath Rabbim

the name of a city (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/translate-names]])

# nose is like the tower in Lebanon

A tower is tall and straight, and her nose is tall and straight. (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-simile]])

# that looks toward Damascus

The tower looking is a metonym for people on the tower looking. AT: "that allows people to look toward Damascus" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metonymy]])