# General Information:

The man describes what he would like to do with the woman .

# Your height is like that of a date palm tree

"You stand up like a date palm tree." Date palm trees are tall and straight, and their branches are only at the top, with the fruit under the branches. (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-simile]])

# date palm tree

a tall, straight tree that produces a sweet, brown, and sticky fruit that grows in groups

# your breasts like clusters of fruit

The dates on a palm tree grow soft and round in large bunches that hang from the tree just below the branches, which are all at the top. The woman's breasts are soft and round and are just lower than her arms. (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-simile]])

# I said

"I thought" or "I said to myself." The man said this silently.

# I want to climb ... its branches

The man wants to embrace the woman. (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metaphor]])

# May your breasts be like clusters of grapes

The man wants to touch her breasts. Clusters of grapes are round and soft. (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-simile]])

# may the fragrance of your nose be like apricots

The word "nose" is a metonym for the breath coming out of the nose. AT: "may the breath coming from your nose smell sweet like apricots" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-simile]])

# apricots

sweet yellow fruit

# translationWords

* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/palm]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/fruit]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/grape]]