# My heart is fixed, God, my heart is fixed

Being confident is spoken of as one's heart being firm rather than shaken or easily moved. The phrase is repeated to show that he has complete confidence in God and will not change. AT: "I am completely confident in you, God" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metonymy]])

# I will sing praises

Who he will sing to can be stated clearly. AT: "I will sing praises to you, God" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-explicit]])

# Wake up, my honored heart

It can be stated clearly that the purpose of waking up is to sing praises to God. Waking up may be a metaphor for starting or preparing to do something. The heart represents the psalmist or his emotions. AT: "Wake up, my honored heart, to sing praises to God" or "I will prepare my honored heart to sing praises to God" or "I am honored to wake up and sing praises to God" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-explicit]] and [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metaphor]] and [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-synecdoche]])

# wake up, lute and harp

It can be stated clearly that the purpose of waking up is to sing praises to God. The psalmist speaks as though the lute and harp were people who could wake up to sing praises to God. AT: "Wake up, lute and harp, and sing praises to God" or "I will play the lute and harp while I sing praises to God" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-explicit]] and [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-personification]] and [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metaphor]])

# I will wake up the dawn

The dawn is spoken of as if it were alive, and getting up before dawn happens is spoken of as waking it up. The purpose of getting up before dawn is to praise God. AT: "I will get up before dawn" or "I will get up before the sun rises" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-personification]] and [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metaphor]] and [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-explicit]])