# In the eighth month

This is the eighth month of the Hebrew calendar. It is during the last part of October and the first part of November on Western calendars. (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/translate-hebrewmonths]] and [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/translate-ordinal]])

# the second year of Darius' reign

"the second year of the reign of Darius the king" or "the second year since Darius became king" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/translate-ordinal]])

# the word of Yahweh came

This idiom is used to introduce a special message from God. AT: "Yahweh gave a message" or "Yawheh spoke this message" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-idiom]])

# Yahweh

This is the name of God that he revealed to his people in the Old Testament. See the translationWord page about Yahweh concerning how to translate this.

# Berechiah ... Iddo

These are the names of men. (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/translate-names]])

# exceedingly angry with your fathers

"very angry with your forefathers"

# Turn to me ... and I will return to you

Yahweh speaks of having a change of attitude toward another person as if it were turning or returning. The people turning to Yahweh means that they will again be devoted to him and worship him, while Yahweh returning to the people means that he will again bless them and help them. (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metaphor]])

# this is the declaration of Yahweh of hosts

Yahweh speaks of himself by name to express the certainty of what he is declaring. AT: "this is what Yahweh of hosts has declared" or "this is what I, Yahweh of hosts, have declared" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-123person]])

# translationWords

* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/biblicaltimeyear]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/names/darius]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/reign]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/wordofgod]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/yahweh]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/names/zechariahot]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/prophet]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/yahwehofhosts]]