# the twenty-fourth day of the eleventh month, which is the month of Shebat

"Shebat" is the eleventh month of the Hebrew calendar. The twenty-fourth day is near the middle of February on Western calendars. (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/translate-hebrewmonths]] and [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/translate-ordinal]] and [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/translate-names]])

# in the second year of Darius' reign

"in the second year of the reign of Darius the king" or "in the second year since Darius became king." See how you translated this in [Zechariah 1:1](./01.md). (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/translate-ordinal]])

# the word of Yahweh came

This idiom is used to introduce a special message from God. See how you translated this in [Zechariah 1:1](./01.md). AT: "Yahweh gave a message" or "Yawheh spoke this message" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-idiom]])

# Berechiah ... Iddo

These are the names of men. (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/translate-names]])

# look

The word "look" here shows that Zechariah was surprised by what he saw.

# myrtle trees

a kind of small tree with colorful flowers (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/translate-unknown]])

# I said, "What are these things, Lord?" Then the angel who talked with me

Here Zechariah speaks to an unidentified angel. This is not the same as the "man" who was "riding on a red horse."

# What are these things, Lord?

"What are these things, sir?" Here the word "Lord" is a form of polite address.

# translationWords

* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/biblicaltimeday]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/biblicaltimeyear]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/darius]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/reign]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/wordofgod]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/son]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/prophet]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/horse]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/lordgod]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/angel]]