# I have returned to Jerusalem with mercies

Possible meanings are 1) although Yahweh had left Jerusalem when the people had gone into exile, he will now return to Jerusalem when they have come back from exile or 2) Yahweh speaks of having a change of attitude towards the people of Jerusalem and again blessing them and helping them as if he were returning to the city. AT: "I will once again show mercy towards Jerusalem" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metaphor]])

# My house will be built within her

The word "her" refers to Jerusalem, and the word "house" is a metonym for the temple. This can be stated in active form. AT: "The people will build my temple in Jerusalem" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metonymy]] and [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-activepassive]])

# this is the declaration of Yahweh of hosts

Yahweh speaks of himself by name to express the certainty of what he is declaring. See how you translated this in [Zechariah 1:3](./01.md). AT: "this is what Yahweh of hosts has declared" or "this is what I, Yahweh of hosts, have declared" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-123person]])

# the measuring line will be stretched out over Jerusalem

This refers to builders using their instruments to rebuild the city. This can be stated in active form. AT: "builders will stretch out their measuring lines over Jerusalem" or "the people will rebuild Jerusalem" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-explicit]] and [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-activepassive]])

# Again call out, saying

The angel who was speaking to Zechariah says these words.

# My cities will once again overflow with goodness

The phrase "my cities" refers to the cities of Judah and represents the people who live in those cities. Yahweh speaks of the inhabitants of those cities again being prosperous as if goodness were a liquid that overflowed the cities, which are its containers. AT: "My cities will once again be prosperous" or "The people in the cities of Judah will once again be prosperous" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metonymy]] and [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metaphor]])

# Yahweh will again comfort Zion

Here the word "Zion" refers to the people who live in the city. AT: "Yahweh will again comfort the people in Zion" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metonymy]])

# translationWords

* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/yahwehofhosts]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/jerusalem]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/mercy]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/house]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/declare]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/zion]]