# Connecting Statement:

Yahweh continues giving Ezekiel his message to Tyre.

# General Information:

The words "you" and "your" in these verses refer to Tyre.

# Aram was a dealer

Here "Aram" refers to the people of Aram. AT: "The people of Aram were dealers" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metonymy]])

# dealer

"trader"

# emeralds

An emerald is a type of green precious stone.

# purple

Here purple cloth or yarn is referred to by just its color. AT: "purple cloth" or "purple yarn" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-nominaladj]])

# pearls

beautiful beads of hard white material that come from creatures in the sea

# rubies

A ruby is a type of red precious stone.

# Judah and the land of Israel were trading with you

Here "Judah and the land of Israel" refers to the people of those places. AT: "The people of Judah and Israel were trading with you" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metonymy]])

# Minnith ... Helbon ... Zahar

These were names of places. (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/translate-names]])

# cakes

The meaning of the Hebrew word translated here as "cakes" is uncertain. Other versions may translate it as another type of food.

# balsam

a sweet-smelling gum or resin that comes from a tree

# enormous

"abundant" or "great"

# translationWords

* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/names/aram]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/names/kingdomofjudah]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/names/kingdomofisrael]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/wheat]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/honey]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/oil]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/names/damascus]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/wine]]