# Connecting Statement:

Yahweh continues giving Ezekiel his message to Tyre. The city of Tyre continues to be described as if it were a wrecked ship. (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metaphor]])

# General Information:

The word "they" in these verses refer to the people mentioned in verses 28 and 29. The words "you" and "your" refer to Tyre.

# They will shave their heads bald for you and bind themselves with sackcloth

These are expressions of grieving and mourning. (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/translate-symaction]])

# bald

having no hair on the head

# They will lift up their wails of lamentation

The abstract noun "lamentation" can be translated using the verb "lament." AT: "They will cry out and lament" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-abstractnouns]])

# sing dirges

"sing funeral songs"

# Who is like Tyre, who has now been brought to silence in the middle of the sea?

This question expects a negative answer and emphasizes Tyre being different from all other cities. It can be expressed as a statement. AT: "No other city is like Tyre, who has now been brought to silence in the middle of the sea." (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-rquestion]])

# who has now been brought to silence

This can be expressed in active form. AT: "who its enemies have now silenced" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-activepassive]])

# When your merchandise went ashore

This can be expressed in active form. AT: "When people brought your merchandise ashore" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-activepassive]])

# ashore

"onto the land"

# you enriched the kings of the earth

"you made the kings of the earth rich"

# translationWords

* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/sackcloth]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/lament]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/names/tyre]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/peoplegroup]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/king]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/earth]]