# Connecting Statement:

Yahweh continues giving Ezekiel his message to Tyre. The city of Tyre continues to be described as if it were a wrecked ship. (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metaphor]])

# General Information:

The words "you" and "your" in these verses refer to Tyre.

# when you were shattered by the seas, by deep waters

This can be expressed in active form. AT: "when the seas, the deep waters, shattered you" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-activepassive]])

# shattered

To "shatter" is to break up into pieces.

# crew

team of workers

# were appalled at you

"were shocked and terrified by what happened to you"

# their kings shuddered in horror

The abstract noun "horror" can be translated using the adverb "fearfully." AT: "their kings shuddered fearfully" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-abstractnouns]])

# shuddered

"shook, trembled with fear"

# Their faces trembled

Here "faces" represents the whole person. AT: "They appear to be trembling" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metonymy]])

# hiss at you

Hissing was making a whistling sound through the teeth. It may have been out of dismay, grief, or surprise. (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/translate-symaction]])

# you have become a horror

The abstract noun "horror" can be translated using the adjective "dreadful." This can be stated in active form. AT: "you have become dreadful" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-abstractnouns]])

# translationWords

* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/water]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/king]]