# You do not know

Here "you" is plural and refers to the mother and the sons. (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-you]])

# Are you able

Here "you" is plural, but Jesus is only talking to the two sons. (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-you]])

# drink the cup that I am about to drink

To "drink the cup" or "drink from the cup" is an idiom that means to experience suffering. AT: "suffer what I am about to suffer" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-idiom]])

# They said

"The sons of Zebedee said" or "James and John said"

# My cup you will indeed drink

To "drink a cup" or "drink from a cup" is an idiom that means to experience suffering. AT: "You will indeed suffer as I will suffer" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-idiom]])

# right hand ... left hand

These refer to having positions of power, authority, and honor. See how you translated this in [Matthew 20:21](./20.md). (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metonymy]])

# it is for those for whom it has been prepared by my Father

This can be stated in active form. AT: "my Father has prepared those places, and he will give them to whom he chooses" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-activepassive]])

# my Father

This is an important title for God that describes the relationship between God and Jesus. (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/guidelines-sonofgodprinciples]])

# heard this

"heard what James and John had asked Jesus"

# they were very angry with the two brothers

If necessary, you can make explicit why the ten disciples were angry. AT: "they were very angry with the two brothers because each of them also wanted to sit in a place of honor next to Jesus" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-explicit]])

# translationWords

* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/jesus]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/righthand]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/godthefather]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/disciple]]