# Connecting Statement:

Jesus finishes teaching his disciples about authority and serving others.

# called them

"called the twelve disciples"

# the rulers of the Gentiles subjugate them

"the Gentile kings forcefully rule over their people"

# their important men

"the important men among the Gentiles"

# exercise authority over them

"have control over the people"

# whoever wishes

"whoever wants" or "whoever desires"

# to be first

"to be important"

# the Son of Man ... his life

Jesus is speaking about himself in the third person. If necessary, you can translate this in the first person. (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-123person]])

# did not come to be served

This can be stated in active form. AT: "did not come so that other people would serve him" or "did not come so that other people would serve me" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-activepassive]])

# but to serve

You can make clear the understood information. AT: "but to serve other people" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-ellipsis]])

# to give his life as a ransom for many

Here "ransom" is a metaphor for the payment Jesus made by giving up his life in death, since he did it to set people free from the punishment they deserve because of their sins. (See: rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metaphor)

# to give his life

To give one's live is an idiom meaning to die voluntarily, usually in order to help others. AT: "to die" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-idiom]])

# for many

You can make clear the understood information. AT: "for many people" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-ellipsis]])

# translationWords

* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/jesus]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/ruler]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/gentile]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/authority]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/servant]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/sonofman]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/serve]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/ransom]]