# Connecting Statement:

Paul warns the believers that because they are one with Christ, they ought not do certain things.

# If then

This is an idiom that means "because." (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-idiom]])

# God has raised you with Christ

Possible meanings are 1) because God has caused Christ to come alive again, God has already given the believers in Colossae new spiritual life. AT: "God has given you new life because you belong to Christ" or 2) because God has caused Christ to come alive again, the believers in Colossae can know that after they die they will live with Christ, and Paul can speak of the believers living again as if it has already happened. AT: "you can be sure that God will give you life as he has caused Christ to come alive again" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-pastforfuture]])

# things above

"things in heaven"

# where Christ is sitting at the right hand of God.
To sit at the "right hand of God" is a symbolic action of receiving great honor and authority from God. AT: "where Christ is sitting in the place of honor and authority beside God" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/translate-symaction]])

# For you have died

As Christ actually died, so God counts the Colossian believers as having died with Christ. (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metaphor]])

# your life is hidden with Christ in God

Paul speaks of people's lives as if they were objects that can be hidden in containers and speaks of God as if he were a container. AT: Possible meanings are 1) "it is as though God has taken your life and concealed it with Christ in God's presence" or 2) "only God knows what your true life really is, and he will reveal it when he reveals Christ" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-activepassive]] and [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metaphor]])

# who is your life

Christ is the one who gives spiritual life to the believer. (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metonymy]])

# translationWords

* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/god]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/raise]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/christ]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/glory]]