# Connecting Statement:

Paul continues to tell the believers how to live and reminds them that Christians should treat everyone according to the same standard.

# you have taken off the old man with its practices, and you have put on the new man

Here Paul is speaking of a Christian's rejecting his old sinful life as if it were an old garment that he takes off in order to put on a new garment. It was very common for Israelites such as Paul to speak of moral qualities as if they were pieces of clothing. (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metaphor]])

# the image

This refers to Jesus Christ. (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metonymy]])

# there is no Greek and Jew, circumcision and uncircumcision, barbarian, Scythian, slave, freeman

These terms are examples of the categories of people that Paul says do not matter for God. God sees every person alike, not by race, religion, nationality, or social status. AT: "race, religion, culture, and social status do not matter" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metonymy]])

# barbarian

a foreigner who does not know local customs

# Scythian

This is someone from the land of Scythia, which was outside the Roman Empire. Greeks and Romans used this word for someone who grew up in a place where everyone did wicked things all the time.

# Christ is all, and is in all

Nothing is excluded or left out of the rule of Christ. AT: "Christ is all important and lives in all his people" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-explicit]])

# translationWords

* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/imageofgod]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/creation]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/names/greek]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/jew]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/circumcise]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/circumcise]]