## translationWords

* [[en:tw:beloved]]
* [[en:tw:compassion]]
* [[en:tw:elect]]
* [[en:tw:forgive]]
* [[en:tw:heart]]
* [[en:tw:holy]]
* [[en:tw:lord]]

## translationNotes

* **put on…a heart of compassion…** - As a person puts on clothing while getting dressed, believers are to put on compassion, lowliness, etc. in their behavior towards each other. (See: [[en:ta:vol1:translate:figs_metaphor]])
* **Put on therefore** - "Therefore" is a discourse marker used to specify an action or behavior change based on the preceding discussion or teaching. (See: [[en:ta:workbench:discourse:home]])
* **as God’s chosen ones–holy and beloved** - holy and beloved**  - “as God's holy and dearly loved chosen ones". (See: [[en:ta:vol2:translate:figs_activepassive]])
* **a heart of compassion, kindness, lowliness, meekness, and patience ** - "an inner being that is compassionate, kind, humble, gentle and patient".
* **heart of compassion** - “heart of empathy” or “heart of consideration”
* **kindness ** - “goodness” or “gentleness”
* **lowliness** - “humbleness of mind” or “lowliness of mind” or “modesty”
* **meekness** - “gentleness”. Calmness of the soul toward God rather than outward expression of feelings.
* **patience** - "fortitude" or "long-suffering" or "self-restraint"
* **Bear with one another** - To work together in harmony and love. AT: "to put up with or endure each another".
* **has a complaint against ** - "complains against" (See: [[en:ta:vol2:translate:figs_abstractnouns]])
* **have love ** - “put on love”
* **which is the bond of perfection ** - “which binds us perfectly together” or “which binds us together in perfect harmony”
