# General Information:

Moses continues reminding the people of Israel what the previous generation of Israelites did.

# Yet you refused to attack

God commanded the Israelites to attack and destroy the Amorites, but the Israelites were afraid and refused to fight them. (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-explicit]])

# into the hand of the Amorites

Here "into the hand" means to give the Amorites power over them. AT: "into the power of the Amorites" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metonymy]])

# Where can we go now?

Here this question emphasizes how afraid they were. This rhetorical question can be translated as a statement. AT: "We have nowhere to go." (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-rquestion]])

# made our heart to melt

This means that they became afraid. AT: "made us very afraid" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-idiom]])

# are fortified up to the heavens

This is an exaggeration that emphasizes how frightened the people were because the cities were so large and strong. AT: "have walls so high it is like they reach up to the heavens" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-hyperbole]])

# sons of the Anakim

These are descendants of the Anak people who were very large and fierce. (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-explicit]] and [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/translate-names]])

# translationWords

* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/rebel]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/command]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/yahweh]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/god]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/tent]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/egypt]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/power]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/amorite]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/heart]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/heaven]]