## translationWords

* [[en:tw:ark]]
* [[en:tw:god]]
* [[en:tw:noah]]

## translationNotes

* **all flesh** - This refers primarily to human beings.
* **the earth is filled with violence through them** - "the earth is filled with violence because of them"
* **I will destroy them with the earth** - “I will destroy both them and the earth” or “I will destroy them when I destroy the earth.”
* **an ark** - This can be translated as "a large box" or "a ship" or "a barge." It would be able to float on water even in a very bad storm.
* **cypress wood** - This can be translated as "wood used for building boats" or "good wood" or with the name of a tree that people use for making boats. People do not know exactly what kind of tree this was.
* **cover it with pitch** - "spread pitch on it" or "paint tar on it." The reason for doing this can be made explicit: “to make it waterproof” (UDB). (See: [[en:ta:vol1:translate:figs_explicit]])
* **pitch** - This is a thick, sticky or oily liquid that people put on a boat to stop water from going through gaps in the wood into the boat.
* **cubit** - A "cubit" was a little less than half a meter long. (See: [[en:obe:other:biblicaldistance]])
* **three hundred cubits** - "138 meters." You may use the Hebrew measuring units from the ULB or the metric units from the UDB or your own culture's units if you know how they compare to the metric units. You may also write a footnote that says "Three hundred cubits is about 138 meters."
* **fifty cubits** - "twenty-three meters"
* **thirty cubits** - "fourteen meters"
