# Those who are blessed by God will inherit the land; those who are cursed by him will be cut off

This is a contrastive form of Parallelism. Those who are blessed by God in contrast to those who are cursed by God. (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-parallelism]])

# Those who are blessed by God

This can be stated as active. AT: "Those whom God blesses" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-activepassive]])

# will inherit the land

The possession of the land is spoken of as if it had been received as an inheritance. See how you translated this in [Psalms 37:9](./008.md). AT: "will receive the land as their own possession" or "will be allowed to live safely in the land" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metaphor]])

# those who are cursed by him

This can be stated in active form. AT: "those whom Yahweh curses" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-activepassive]])

# will be cut off

The destruction of the wicked is spoken of as if they were a branch of plant that was cut off and thrown away. See how you translated this in [Psalms 37:9](./008.md). (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metaphor]])

# It is by Yahweh that a man's steps are established ... commendable in God's sight

These can be stated to show the logical connection and clarify the passive clause. AT: "If a man lives in a commendable way in Yahweh's sight, Yahweh will establish his steps" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-activepassive]])

# It is by Yahweh that a man's steps are established

This can be stated in active form. AT: "Yahweh is the one who enables a man to be successful" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-activepassive]])

# a man ... the man

This does not refer to a specific man, but to people in general. (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-genericnoun]])

# a man's steps

Steps represent the way a person lives. AT: "the way a man lives" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metonymy]])

# Though he stumbles, he will not fall down

Here "stumble" and "fall" refer to the man's reaction to difficult times. AT: "Though he has difficult times, he will not utterly fail" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metaphor]])

# holding him with his hand

Here "his hand" refers to Yahweh's power, and "holding him" refers to protecting him. AT: "protecting him with his power" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metonymy]])

# translationWords

* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/bless]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/god]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/inherit]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/curse]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/cutoff]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/stumble]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/hand]]