# Connecting Statement:

Paul prays for the believers in Philippi and talks about the joy there is in suffering for the Lord.

# may abound

Paul speaks of love as if it were objects that people could obtain more of. AT: "may increase" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metaphor]])

# in knowledge and all understanding

Here "understanding" refers to understanding about God. This can be stated clearly. AT: "as you learn and understand more about what pleases God" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-explicit]])

# approve

This refers to examining things and taking only those that are good. AT: "test and choose"

# what is excellent

"what is most pleasing to God"

# sincere and without offense

The words "sincere" and "without offense" mean basically the same thing. Paul combines them to emphasize moral purity. AT: "completely blameless" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-doublet]])

# you also will be filled

Paul is speaking of the believers as if they were containers that could be filled with fruit. AT: "This is also so that Jesus Christ may cause you to obey God more and more" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-activepassive]] and [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metaphor]])

# filled with the fruit of righteousness that comes

The good deeds of a believer whom God has declared good please God as does the way fruit growing on a tree is sweet to those who eat it. AT: "able to please God and other people by the way you live now that God has forgiven your sins" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metaphor]])

# to the glory and praise of God

Possible meanings are 1) "Then other people will see how you honor God" or 2) "Then people will praise and give honor to God because of the good things they see you do." These alternate translations would require a new sentence.

# translationWords

* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/pray]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/love]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/test]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/dayofthelord]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/fruit]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/righteous]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/jesus]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/glory]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/praise]]