# General Information:

Paul says that two things have happened because of "the progress of the gospel": many people inside and outside the palace have found out why he is in prison, and other Christians are no longer afraid to proclaim the good news.

# Now I want

Here the word "Now" is used to mark a new part of the letter.

# brothers

Here this means fellow Christians, including both men and women, because all believers in Christ are members of one spiritual family, with God as their heavenly Father.

# that what has happened to me

Paul is talking about his time in prison. AT: "that the things I suffered because I was put into prison for preaching about Jesus" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-explicit]])

# has really served to advance the gospel

"has caused more people to hear the gospel"

# my chains in Christ came to light

"Chains in Christ" is a metonym for being in prison for the sake of Christ. "Came to light" is a metaphor for "became known." AT: "It became known that I am in prison for the sake of Christ" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metaphor]])

# my chains in Christ came to light ... guard ... everyone else

This can be stated in active form. AT: "the palace guards and many other people in Rome know that I am in chains for the sake of Christ" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-activepassive]])

# my chains in Christ

Here Paul uses the preposition "in" to mean "for the sake of." AT: "my chains for the sake of Christ" or "my chains because I teach people about Christ"

# my chains

Here the word "chains" is a metonym for imprisonment. AT: "my imprisonment" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metonymy]])

# palace guard

This is a group of soldiers that helped protect the Roman emperor.

# translationWords

* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/brother]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/goodnews]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/inchrist]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/prison]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/wordofgod]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/fear]]