# It is my eager expectation and certain hope

Here the word "expectation" and the phrase "certain hope" mean basically the same thing. Paul uses them together to emphasize how strong his expectation is. AT: "I eagerly and confidently hope" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-doublet]])

# but with all boldness so that now as always Christ will be exalted

This is part of Paul's expectation and hope. AT: "but that I will be very bold now, as I always have been, and Christ will be exalted"

# Christ will be exalted in my body

The phrase "my body" is a metonym for what Paul does with his body. This can be stated in active form. Possible meanings are 1) "I will honor Christ by what I do" or 2) "people will praise Christ because of what I do" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metonymy]] and [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-activepassive]])

# whether by life or by death

"if I go on living or if I die"

# For to me

These words are emphatic. They indicate that this is Paul's personal experience.

# to live is Christ

Here pleasing and serving Christ is spoken of as Paul's only purpose for living. AT: "to go on living is an opportunity to please Christ" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metaphor]])

# to die is gain

Here death is spoken of as "gain." Possible meanings for "gain" are 1) Paul's death will help spread the message of the gospel or 2) Paul will be in a better situation. (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metaphor]])

# translationWords

* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/christ]]