# Connecting Statement:

Yahweh continues to speak of his judgment on the people of Judah.

# At that time

At the time when the events in [Jeremiah 7:32](../07/31.md) [Jeremiah to 34](../07/33.md) happen.

# this is Yahweh's declaration

Yahweh speaks of himself by name to express the certainty of what he is declaring. See how you translated this in [Jeremiah 1:8](../01/07.md). AT: "this is what Yahweh has declared" or "this is what I, Yahweh, have declared" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-123person]])

# they will bring

This word "they" here refers to the enemies of the people of Judah.

# its officials

"its princes" or "its rulers"

# will spread them out

The word "them" refers to the bones of the people listed in the previous verse.

# that they have followed and served, that they have walked after and sought, and that they have worshiped

The word "they" here refers to the people of Judah. These three phrases mean about the same thing and are repeated for emphasis. (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-parallelism]])

# walked after

This is a metaphor for serving or worshiping. See how you translated this in [Jeremiah 2:23](../02/23.md). (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metaphor]])

# The bones will not be gathered or buried again

This can be expressed in active form. AT: "No one will gather their bones or bury them again" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-activepassive]])

# They will be like dung on the surface of the earth

The bones are compared to dung on the ground both to emphasize that they will be disgusting and because they will not be buried. (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-simile]])

# on the surface of the earth

"all over the ground"

# where I have driven them

The word "them" refers to the people of Judah.

# they will choose death instead of life for themselves, all who are still left over from this evil nation

"those who still remain from this evil nation will want to die instead of stay alive"

# this is the declaration of Yahweh of hosts

Yahweh speaks of himself by name to express the certainty of what he is declaring. See how similar words are translated in [Jeremiah 1:8](../01/07.md). AT: "this is what Yahweh of hosts has declared" or "this is what I, Yahweh of hosts, have declared" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-123person]])

# translationWords

* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/yahweh]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/tomb]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/king]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/kingdomofjudah]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/priest]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/prophet]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/jerusalem]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/heaven]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/serve]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/walk]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/seek]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/worship]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/bury]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/dung]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/earth]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/death]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/life]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/evil]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/nation]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/yahwehofhosts]]