# Connecting Statement:

Yahweh continues to speak of his judgment on the people of Judah.

# General Information:

The words "them" and "they" in these verses refer to the people of Judah.

# So say to them

Yahweh is telling Jeremiah what to say to the people of Judah.

# Does anyone fall and not get up? Does anyone get lost and not try to return? Why has this people, Jerusalem, turned away in permanent faithlessness?

These questions make the point that the way that the people of Judah were acting did not make sense. They can be translated as a statement. AT: "You know that when someone falls, he gets back up, and when someone gets lost, they try to find their way back. It does not make sense that this people, Jerusalem, has turned away in permanent faithlessness." (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-rquestion]])

# Jerusalem

The word "Jerusalem" here is a synecdoche for all the people of Judah. AT: "Judah" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-synecdoche]])

# hold on to treachery

What the people of Judah were doing is spoken of as if they were clinging to treachery and would not let it go. (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metaphor]])

# treachery

"deceit." The abstract noun "treachery" can be translated using the verb "deceive." AT: "what deceives them" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-abstractnouns]])

# translationWords

* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/peoplegroup]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/names/jerusalem]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/turn]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/faithless]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/repent]]