# Connecting Statement:

Yahweh continues giving Jeremiah his message to the people of Judah.

# General Information:

The words "they" and "them" in these verses refer to the people of Judah.

# paid attention and listened

These two things mean about the same thing and are repeated for emphasis. (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-doublet]])

# did not speak right

"did not say what is right"

# for his wickedness

The abstract noun "wickedness" can be translated using the adjective "wicked." AT: "for being wicked" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-abstractnouns]])

# What have I done?

The implied information is that this is a question that the people of Judah should have been asking. It can be translated as a statement. AT: "I have done a terrible thing." (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-explicit]] and [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-rquestion]])

# go where they wish

"go their own way"

# like a stallion rushing toward battle

The eagerness of the people to follow their own evil way is compared to the eagerness of a war horse running toward a battle. (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-simile]])

# stallion

adult male horse

# Even the stork in heaven knows the right times; and the doves, swifts, and cranes

The implied information is that these types of birds know the right times to migrate, which means to fly from one place to another at different times of the year for feeding or breeding. (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-explicit]])

# stork ... doves, swifts, and cranes

All of these are different types of birds that migrate. (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/translate-unknown]])

# They go on their migrations at the right time, but my people do not know Yahweh's decrees

The implied information is that the people should have naturally known Yahweh's decrees. (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-explicit]])

# They go on their migrations

The abstract noun "migrations" can be translated using the verb "migrate." AT: "They migrate" or "They fly from one region to another" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-abstractnouns]])

# translationWords

* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/evil]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/heaven]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/time]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/dove]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/peopleofgod]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/know]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/yahweh]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/decree]]