# Connecting Statement:

Yahweh continues giving Jeremiah his message to the people of Judah.

# General Information:

The words "they," "their" and "them" in these verses refer to the people of Judah.

# They healed the wounds of my people lightly

Possible meanings are 1) the wounds represent the problems the people have as a result of their sin. AT: "They act as though my people's problems are not serious, like small wounds" or 2) the wounds represent the people's sin. AT: "They act as though my people's sins are not serious, like small wounds" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metaphor]])

# They healed the wounds ... lightly

Here "lightly" represents treating the wounds as if they were not serious, as if they were not difficult. (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metaphor]])

# "Peace, Peace," when there was no peace

"'All is well, All is well,' but it was not well"

# Were they ashamed when they practiced abominations?

God uses this question to show his anger that the people were not ashamed of their sins. AT: "They committed terrible sins, and they were not ashamed." (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-rquestion]])

# they did not know how to blush

"their faces did not even turn red." When a person is ashamed, his face normally turns red.

# they will fall among the fallen

Here "fall" represents being killed. AT: "they will be killed along with the others who are killed" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metaphor]])

# they will be brought down when they are punished

Here "will be brought down" represents being destroyed. This can be stated in active form. AT: "I will destroy them when I punish them" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metaphor]] and [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-activepassive]])

# this is Yahweh's declaration

Yahweh speaks of himself by name to express the certainty of what he is declaring. See how you translated this in [Jeremiah 1:8](../01/07.md). AT: "this is what Yahweh has declared" or "this is what I, Yahweh, have declared" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-123person]])

# the leaf will wither

"the leaf will dry up"

# what I have given to them will pass away

The meaning of the original text is uncertain here.