# Connecting Statement:

Yahweh continues his message about the punishment coming to Judah.

# General Information:

The words "his" and "they" in these verses refer to the enemies of Judah.

# The snorting of his stallions is heard from Dan

This can be expressed in active form. AT: "The people of Dan hear the snorting of his stallions" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-activepassive]])

# snorting

a loud sound that a horse makes with its nose

# stallions

adult male horses

# The whole earth shakes

This is an exaggeration that is a metaphor for the people of Judah trembling with fear. AT: "All the people of the land shake with fear" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-hyperbole]] and [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metaphor]])

# at the sound of the neighing of his strong horses

"when they hear the sound of the enemy's strong horses"

# neighing

a sound that a horse makes

# they will come and consume

Here the word "consume" means to eat up. It is an idiom for how the enemies come and destroy the land and its inhabitants. AT: "they will come and destroy" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-idiom]])

# For see

"Now pay attention"

# I am sending out snakes among you, vipers that you cannot charm. They will bite you

The snakes and vipers represent the enemy soldiers, and their bite represents the enemy attacks. AT: "I am sending out enemy soldiers among you, beyond your control. They will attack you" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metaphor]])

# vipers that you cannot charm

To charm means to sing or make music in order to control snakes.

# this is Yahweh's declaration

Yahweh speaks of himself by name to express the certainty of what he is declaring. See how you translated this in [Jeremiah 1:8](../01/07.md). AT: "this is what Yahweh has declared" or "this is what I, Yahweh, have declared" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-123person]])

# translationWords

* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/dan]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/earth]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/horse]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/consume]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/send]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/serpent]]