# General Information:

Jeremiah and Yahweh have a conversation about the people of Judah.

# My sorrow has no end

The word "my" refers to Jeremiah. The original text is unclear and is interpreted here in different ways by modern versions.

# has no end

These words are an exaggeration that express the great extent of Jeremiah's sorrow. AT: "is very great" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-hyperbole]])

# my heart is sick

Here "heart" represents Jeremiah, emphasizing his feelings and emotions. AT: "I feel sick deep down inside me" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-synecdoche]])

# Behold!

This alerts the reader to pay attention to what follows. "Pay attention!"

# the daughter of my people

Jeremiah is speaking about the people of Judah in a way that shows his affection for them, as if for a daughter. See how you translated this in [Jeremiah 4:11](../04/11.md). AT: "my dear people" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metaphor]])

# from a land far away

Possible meanings are 1) From exile. AT: "from exile in a distant land" or 2) From throughout the land of Judah. AT: "throughout our land"

# Is Yahweh not in Zion? Is her king no longer there?

These two questions are similar in meaning. They imply that the people of Judah are wondering why Yahweh is not saving them. AT: "Why does Yahweh not save us if he is the king in Zion?" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-parallelism]] and [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-explicit]] and [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-rquestion]])

# Why then do they provoke me to anger with their carved figures and their worthless foreign idols?

The word "me" refers to Yahweh. This question can be translated as a statement. AT: "If they want me to save them, then they must not offend me with their carved figures." (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-rquestion]])

# translationWords

* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/heart]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/voice]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/zion]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/king]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/image]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/worthy]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/foreigner]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/idol]]