# General Information:

This is an introduction to the book of Revelation. It explains that it is a revelation from Jesus Christ and it gives a blessing to those who read it.

# his servants

This refers to people who believe in Christ.

# what must soon take place

"the events that must happen soon"

# made it known

"communicated it"

# to his servant John

John wrote this book and was referring to himself here. AT: "to me, John, his servant" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-123person]])

# the word of God

Here it refers to the messages that God gave John.

# the one who reads aloud

This does not refer to a specific person. It refers to anyone who reads it aloud. AT: "anyone who reads aloud" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-genericnoun]])

# obey what is written in it

This can be stated in active form. AT: "obey what John has written in it" or "obey what they read in it" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-activepassive]])

# the time is near

"the things that must happen will soon happen"

# translationWords

* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/reveal]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/jesus]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/god]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/servant]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/angel]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/names/johntheapostle]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/testimony]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/wordofgod]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/bless]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/prophet]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/obey]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/written]]