# General Information:

In verse 7, John is quoting from Daniel and Zechariah.

# every eye

Since people see with the eyes, the word "eye" is used to refer to people. AT: "every person" or "everyone" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-synecdoche]])

# including those who pierced him

"even those who pierced him will see him"

# pierced him

Jesus' hands and feet were pierced when he was nailed to the cross. Here it refers to people killing him. AT: "killed him" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metonymy]])

# pierced

made a hole in

# the alpha and the omega

These are first and last letters of the Greek alphabet. Possible meanings are 1) "the one who began all things and who ends all things" or 2) "the one who has always lived and who always will live". If unclear to readers you may consider using the first and last letters of your alphabet. AT: "the A and the Z" or "the first and the last" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metaphor]] and [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-merism]])

# who is to come

Existing in the future is spoken of as coming. (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metaphor]])

# says the Lord God

Some languages would put "The Lord God says" at the beginning or the end of the whole sentence. (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/writing-quotations]])

# translationWords

* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/tribe]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/mourn]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/amen]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/lordgod]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/god]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/almighty]]