# General Information:

John explains how his vision began and the instructions the Spirit gave him.

# your ... you

These refer to the believers in the seven churches. (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-you]])

# I, John—your brother and the one who shares with you in the suffering and kingdom and patient endurance that are in Jesus—was

This can be stated as a separate sentence. AT: "I, John, am your brother who who shares with you in God's kingdom and also suffers and patiently endures trials along with you because we belong to Jesus. I was"

# because of the word of God

"because I told others the word of God"

# the word of God

"the message that God spoke." Translate as in [Revelation 1:2](./01.md).

# the testimony about Jesus

"the testimony that God has given about Jesus." Translate as in [Revelation 1:2](./01.md).

# I was in the Spirit

John speaks of being influenced by God's Spirit as if he were in the Spirit. AT: "I was influenced by the Spirit" or "The Spirit influenced me" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-idiom]])

# the Lord's day

the day of worship for believers in Christ

# loud voice like a trumpet

The voice was so loud it sounded like a trumpet. (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-simile]])

# trumpet

This refers to an instrument for producing music or for calling people to gather together for an announcement or meeting.

# Smyrna ... Pergamum ... Thyatira ... Sardis ... Philadelphia ... Laodicea

These are names of cities in the region of western Asia that today is modern Turkey. (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/translate-names]])

# translationWords

* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/names/johntheapostle]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/brother]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/suffer]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/kingdom]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/patient]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/endure]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/inchrist]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/wordofgod]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/testimony]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/holyspirit]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/lord]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/voice]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/trumpet]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/send]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/names/ephesus]]