# His head and hair were as white as wool—as white as snow

Wool and snow are examples of things that are very white. The repetition of "as white as" emphasizes that they were very white. (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-simile]] and [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-doublet]])

# wool

This is the hair of a sheep or goat. It was known to be very white.

# his eyes were like a flame of fire

His eyes are described as being full of light like a flame of fire. AT: "his eyes were glowing like a flame of fire" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-simile]])

# His feet were like polished bronze

Bronze is polished to make it shine and reflect light. AT: "His feet were very shiny like polished bronze" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-simile]])

# like polished bronze, like bronze that had been refined in a furnace

The bronze would be refined first and then polished. AT: "like bronze that has been purified in a hot furnace and polished" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-events]])

# furnace

a strong container for holding a very hot fire. People would put metal in it, and the hot fire would burn away any impurities that were in the metal.

# the sound of many rushing waters

This is very loud, like the sound of a large, fast flowing river, of a large waterfall, or of loud waves in the sea.

# a sword ... was coming out of his mouth

The sword blade was sticking out of his mouth. The sword itself was not in motion.

# a sword with two sharp edges

This refers to a double-edged sword, which is sharpened on both sides to cut both directions.

# translationWords

* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/head]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/snow]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/like]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/fire]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/bronze]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/voice]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/water]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/righthand]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/sword]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/face]]