# I would forget about my complaints

The abstract noun "complaint" can be translated as the verb "complain." AT: "I would stop complaining" or "I would stop complaining against God" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-abstractnouns]])

# my complaints

The implied information can be added. AT: "my complaints against God" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-explicit]])

# I would take off my sad face and be happy

Job's sad face is spoken of here as if it was something that could be removed. AT: "I would stop looking unhappy and smile" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metaphor]])

# I would be afraid of all my sorrows

Verses 28 and 29 express the consequences if Job does what he says in verse 27. This can be expressed by adding the word "then." AT: "Then I would be afraid of all my sorrows" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/writing-connectingwords]])

# of all my sorrows

The abstract noun "sorrows" can be expressed as a verb. AT: "of everything that hurts me" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-abstractnouns]])

# I will be condemned

"I will be accused and punished." This can be stated in active form. AT: "God will condemn me" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-activepassive]])

# why, then, should I try in vain?

Job uses this question to emphasize that he does not think it is of any use trying to get God's attention. The implied information about what Job is trying can be made explicit. AT: "It is of no use to try to get God's attention." (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-rquestion]] and [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-explicit]])