# Connecting Statement:

Paul gives one last warning to the believers about unity and living for God.

# brothers

Here this means fellow Christians, including both men and women.

# to think about

"to watch out for"

# who are causing the divisions and stumbling

This refers to those who argue and cause others to stop trusting in Jesus. AT: "who are causing believers to argue with one another and to stop having faith in God" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-explicit]])

# They are going beyond the teaching that you have learned

"They teach things that do not agree with the truth you have already learned"

# Turn away from them

"Turn away" is an idiom for "move away. AT: "Do not listen to them". (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-idiom]])

# but their own stomach

The words "they serve" are understood from the previous phrase. This can be expressed as a separate sentence. AT: "Rather, they serve their own stomach" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-ellipsis]])

# but their own stomach

Here "stomach" is a metonym that refers to physical desires. Serving there stomach represents satisfying their desires. AT: "but they only want to satisfy their own selfish desires" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metonymy]] and [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metaphor]])

# By their smooth and flattering speech

The words "smooth" and "flattering" mean basically the same thing. Paul is emphasizing how these people are deceiving believers. AT: "By saying things that seem to be good and true" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-doublet]])

# they deceive the hearts of the innocent

"Hearts" is a metonym for entire lives. AT: "they deceive the innocent believers" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metonymy]]).

# innocent

This refers to those who are simple, inexperienced, and naive. AT: "those who innocently trust them" or "those who do not know these teachers are fooling them"

# translationWords

* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/brother]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/stumble]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/turn]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/serve]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/lord]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/christ]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/deceive]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/innocent]]