# Connecting Statement:

Paul closes with a prayer of blessing.

# Now

Here the word "now" marks the closing section of the letter. If you have a way of doing this in your language, you can use it here.

# to make you stand

Paul speaks here of having strong faith as if a person were standing, instead of falling. AT: "to make your faith strong" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metaphor]])

# according to my gospel and the preaching of Jesus Christ

"by the good news that I have preached about Jesus Christ"

# according to the revelation of the mystery that has been kept secret from long ago

Paul says that God has revealed previously hidden truths to the believers. He speaks of these truths as if they were a secret. You can translate this in an active form. AT: "because God has revealed to us believers the secret that he was keeping for a long time" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metaphor]] and [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-activepassive]])

# but now has been revealed, and through the prophetic writings has been made known to all nations, according to the command of the eternal God

The verbs "revealed" and "made known" mean basically the same thing. Paul uses both of them to emphasize his point. You can combine these words and translate this in an active form. AT: "but now the eternal God has made it known to all the nations through the prophetic writings" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-doublet]] and [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-activepassive]])

# for the obedience of faith

Here "obedience" and "faith" are abstract nouns. You can use the verbs "obey" and "trust" in your translation. AT: "so that all nations will obey God because they trust in him" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-abstractnouns]])

# translationWords

* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/goodnews]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/preach]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/reveal]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/mystery]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/prophet]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/command]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/eternity]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/obey]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/faith]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/gentile]]