# General Information:

The man continues to praise the woman.

# How beautiful is your love

"Your love is wonderful"

# my sister

This is an idiom of affection. They are not actually brother and sister. See how you translated this in [Song of Solomon 4:9](./08.md). AT: "my dear" or "my darling" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-idiom]])

# my bride

This Hebrew word can refer to a woman who is married or to one whom a man has arranged to become his son's wife. If your language has a polite word that a man would use to his wife and that has not been used yet in this book, you could use it here. Otherwise you could use any polite term a man would use with his wife. See how you translated this in [Song of Solomon 4:9](./08.md).

# How much better is your love than wine

"Your love is much better than wine." See how you translated a similar phrase in [Song of Solomon 1:2](../01/01.md).

# the fragrance of your perfume than any spice

The verb may be supplied from the previous phrase. AT: "how much better is the fragrance of your perfume than the fragrance of any spice" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-ellipsis]])

# fragrance ... perfume

See how you translated these words in [Song of Solomon 1:3](../01/01.md).

# spice

dried plants or seeds that have a good smell or taste

# Your lips ... drip honey

Possible meanings are that honey is a metaphor for 1) the sweet taste of the woman's kisses or 2) the woman's words. (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metaphor]])

# honey and milk are under your tongue

Because "milk and honey" is a common phrase in the Bible, you should translate literally. Possible meanings are that honey is a metaphor for 1) the sweet taste of the woman's kisses or 2) the woman's words. Milk is a metaphor for luxury, owning many things that help people enjoy life. When the woman kisses the man, he enjoys life. (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metaphor]])

# the fragrance of your garments is like the fragrance of Lebanon

"the smell of your clothes is like the smell of Lebanon." Many cedar trees grew in Lebanon. Cedar trees smell very good, so Lebanon would have smelled sweet and fresh.