# General Information:

The man continues to praise the woman.

# My sister

This is an idiom of affection. They are not actually brother and sister. See how you translated this in [Song of Songs 4:9](./09.md). AT: "My dear" or "My darling" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-idiom]])

# my bride

This Hebrew word can refer to a woman who is married or to one whom a man has arranged to become his son's wife. If your language has a polite word that a man would use to his wife and that has not been used yet in this book, you could use it here. Otherwise you could use any polite term a man would use with his wife. See how you translated this in [Song of Songs 4:9](./09.md).

# is a garden locked up

"is a garden that no one can enter." The garden is a metaphor for the woman, and the lock is a metaphor for her still being a virgin. (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metaphor]])

# a spring that is sealed

"a spring with a cover on it." The spring or well is a metaphor for the woman, and the cover is a metaphor for her being a virgin. (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metaphor]])

# Your branches

branches or channels of rivers, a clear euphemism for the female body part. If any reference to this would be offensive, translate it as a synecdoche for the whole person. AT: "You" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-euphemism]] and [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-synecdoche]])

# a grove

a place where many trees grow together

# with choice fruits

"with the best kinds of fruits"

# nard plants

plants that give oil that people used to make their skin soft and to have a pleasant odor. See how you translated this in [Song of Songs 1:14](../01/12.md).

# henna

small desert trees that people used as a perfume. See how you translated this in [Song of Songs 1:14](../01/12.md).

# saffron

a spice that comes from the dried parts from the yellow thread in the center of a certain flower

# calamus

a reed with a pleasant smell that people used to make anointing oil.

# cinnamon

a spice made from the bark of a tree that people used for cooking

# myrrh

See how you translated this in [Song of Songs 1:13](../01/12.md).

# aloes

a type of large plant that had a very sweet smell

# all the finest spices

"all the best spices"

# translationWords

* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/bride]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/fountain]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/seal]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/pomegranate]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/myrrh]]