# Let the earth sprout vegetation

This is a command. By commanding that vegetation should sprout on the earth, God made it sprout. AT: "Let vegetation sprout up on the earth" or "Let vegetation grow on the earth" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-imperative]])

# vegetation: plants yielding seed and fruit trees bearing fruit

"vegetation, each plant that bears seed and each tree that bears fruit" or "vegetation. Let them be plants that produce seeds and fruit trees that produce fruit." Here "vegetation" is used here as a general term that includes all plants and trees.

# plants

These are kinds of vegetation that have soft stems, rather than woody stems.

# fruit trees bearing fruit whose seed is in the fruit

"trees that bear fruit with seeds in them"

# each according to its own kind

The seeds would produce plants and trees that would be like the ones they came from. In this way, the plants and trees would "reproduce themselves" .

# It was so

"It happened like that" or "That is what happened." What God commanded happened just as he said it should. This phrase appears throughout the chapter and has the same meaning wherever it appears. See how you translated this in [Genesis 1:7](./06.md).

# God saw that it was good

Here "it" refers to the vegetation, plants, and trees. See how you translated this in [Genesis 1:10](./09.md).

# evening and morning

This refers to the whole day. The writer speaks of the whole day as if it were these two parts. In the Jewish culture, a day begins when the sun sets. See how you translated this in [Genesis 1:5](./03.md). (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-merism]])

# the third day

This refers to the third day that the universe existed. See how you translated "the first day" in [Genesis 1:5](./03.md) and decide if you should translate this the same way.

# translationWords

* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/god]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/seed]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/fruit]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/good]]