# God made the two great lights

"In this way God made the two great lights." This sentence explains what God did when he spoke.

# the two great lights

"the two large lights" or "the two bright lights." The two great lights are the sun and the moon.

# to rule the day

The lights that controlled the day are spoken of as if they were a human ruler that controlled what people do. AT: "to direct the daytime as a ruler directs a group of people" or "to mark the times of the day" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-personification]] and [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metaphor]])

# day

This refers only to the daylight hours.

# the lesser light

"the smaller light" or "the dimmer light"

# in the sky

"in the heavens" or "in the open space of the sky"

# to divide the light from the darkness

"to separate the light from the darkness" or "to make it light at one time and dark at another." See how you translated this in [Genesis 1:4](./03.md).

# God saw that it was good

Here "it" refers to the sun, moon, and stars. See how you translated this in [Genesis 1:4](./03.md).

# evening and morning

This refers to the whole day. The writer speaks of the whole day as if it were these two parts. In the Jewish culture, a day begins when the sun sets. See how you translated this in [Genesis 1:5](./03.md). (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-merism]])

# the fourth day

This refers to the fourth day that the universe existed. See how you translated "the first day" in [Genesis 1:5](./03.md) and decide if you should translate this the same way.