# He who winks the eye

"Winking the eye" represents a secretive sign for being cruel to someone else. AT: "He who makes a signal with a gesture" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/translate-symaction]])

# will be thrown down

A person who is ruined is spoken of as if he were thrown down. AT: "others will ruin him" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metaphor]] and [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-activepassive]])

# The mouth of the righteous

Here "mouth" represents what a persons says. AT: "The speech of a righteous person" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metonymy]])

# the righteous

This refers to righteous people in general. AT: "righteous people" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-genericnoun]])

# is a water spring of life

This person's speech is spoken of as if it preserved living animals or people, as a water spring would do in a dry land. (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metaphor]])

# the mouth of the wicked covers up violence

That is, the wicked person appears to say harmless things, but plans to violent things against other people. (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metaphor]])

# the mouth of the wicked

Here "mouth" represents what a persons says. AT: "the speech of a wicked person" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metonymy]])

# the wicked

This refers to wicked people in general. AT: "wicked people" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-genericnoun]])

# translationWords

* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/foolish]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/ruin]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/fountain]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/life]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/evil]]