# General Information:

Jeremiah often wrote prophecy in the form of poetry. Hebrew poetry uses different kinds of parallelism. (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/writing-poetry]] and [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-parallelism]])

# This is the word of Yahweh that came to Jeremiah

This idiom is used to introduce a special message from God. See how you translated this in [Jeremiah 14:1](../14/01.md), and make any changes as needed. AT: "This is the message that Yahweh gave to Jeremiah" or "This is the message that Yahweh spoke to Jeremiah" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-idiom]])

# For Egypt

This phrase indicates this message is intended for the nation of Egypt.

# Necho

This is the name of a man. (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/translate-names]])

# Carchemish

This is the name of a city on the west bank of the Euphrates. (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/translate-names]])

# that Nebuchadnezzar king of Babylon

Here Nebuchadnezzar represents his army. AT: "that the army of Nebuchadnezzar king of Babylon" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metonymy]])

# in the fourth year of Jehoiakim

Here the words "of the reign" are understood and can be added to make the meaning clear. AT: "in the fourth year of the reign of Jehoiakim" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-ellipsis]])

# the fourth year

The word "fourth" is the ordinal form of "four." (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/translate-ordinal]])

# Put the harness on the horses; mount up on the horses

A "harness" is a set of straps placed on a horse so that it can pull a chariot. Here "mount up on the horses" means that the soldiers rode in the chariots that the horses were pulling.

# helmets

A helmet is armor which protects the head in battle.

# polish the spears

This phrase means to "sharpen" the spear.

# translationWords

* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/wordofgod]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/jeremiah]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/prophet]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/nation]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/egypt]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/pharaoh]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/euphrates]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/nebuchadnezzar]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/king]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/babylon]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/jehoiakim]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/son]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/josiah]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/kingdomofjudah]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/shield]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/spear]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/armor]]