# General Information:

Jeremiah's vision for Egypt continues.

# What am I seeing here?

The word "I" here refer to Yahweh. Yahweh uses a question to introduce the vision and to draw attention to what he says next. This question can be translated as a statement. AT: "Look at what is happening here" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-rquestion]])

# They are filled with terror

The abstract noun "terror" can be stated as "terrified." AT: "The Egyptian soldiers are terrified" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-abstractnouns]])

# Terror is all around

The abstract noun "terror" can be stated as "terrifying." AT: "Everything around them is terrifying" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-abstractnouns]])

# this is Yahweh's declaration

Yahweh speaks of himself by name to express the certainty of what he is declaring. See how you translated this in [Jeremiah 1:8](../01/07.md). AT: "this is what Yahweh has declared" or "this is what I, Yahweh, have declared" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-123person]])

# the swift cannot run away, and the soldiers cannot escape

These two phrases share similar meanings and emphasize that no one, not even the strongest and fastest, can escape. The nominal adjective "the swift" can be stated as an adjective. AT: "even the swiftest soldier cannot escape" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-doublet]] and [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-nominaladj]])

# They stumble in the north and fall beside the Euphrates River

Both statements mean the same thing. Being and dying in battle is spoken of as if the soldiers stumble and fall. AT: "The Egyptian soldiers suffer defeat and die in the north by the Euphrates River" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-parallelism]] and [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metaphor]])

# translationWords

* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/terror]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/run]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/yahweh]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/declare]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/stumble]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/names/euphrates]]