# General Information:

Jeremiah continues quoting Yahweh's declaration to the nation of Egypt.

# Who is this who rises like the Nile ... the rivers?

Yahweh uses a question to draw attention to what he is about to say concerning Egypt. This can be translated as a statement. AT: "Look at who rises like the Nile ... the rivers." (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-rquestion]])

# Egypt rises like the Nile

The Nile river floods its banks once a year, covering the surrounding area with water. Yahweh compares the kingdom of Egypt to the Nile because the Egyptian people think they are mighty enough to destroy cities in all the lands. (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-simile]])

# Egypt rises ... Egypt says ... I will

Here "Egypt" represents all the people of Egypt. AT: "The Egyptians rise ... The Egyptians say ... We will" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metonymy]])

# Go up, horses. Be angry, you chariots

Here "horses" and "chariots" represent the soldiers who use horses and chariots in battle. The leaders of Egypt are ordering their soldiers to start the battle. AT: "Go up to battle, you soldiers on horses. Fight furiously, you soldiers in chariots" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metonymy]])

# Let the soldiers go out, Cush and Put, men skillful with a shield

This command can be addressed directly to the soldiers. What they were to go out for can be stated clearly. AT: "You soldiers from Cush and Put, who are skillful with your shields, go out to battle" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-explicit]])

# Cush ... Put

These are biblical names for the countries of Ethiopia and Libya. (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/translate-names]])

# Ludim, men skillful at bending their bows

The ideas of soldiers and going out to battle are understood from earlier in the sentence. They can be repeated. This command can also be addressed directly to the soldiers. AT: "you soldiers from Lud, who are skillful at bending your bows, go out to battle" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-ellipsis]])

# Ludim

This is the name of the people group from the nation of Lud. Lud is the biblical name for Lydia. (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/translate-names]])

# skillful at bending their bows

The phrase "bend the bow" means to pull the string of the bow back with an arrow in order to shoot the arrow. AT: "skillful at shooting arrows from their bows" or "skillful with the bow and arrow" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-idiom]])

# translationWords

* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/raise]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/like]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/names/nileriver]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/water]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/names/egypt]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/earth]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/horse]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/angry]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/chariot]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/names/cush]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/shield]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/bowweapon]]