# General Information:

Yahweh finishes his declaration to Egypt.

# Go up to Gilead and obtain medicine

Gilead was a region famous for having people skillful with medicine. Yahweh is mocking the Egyptians by telling them to go get medicine, but he knows it will not help them. (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-irony]])

# virgin daughter of Egypt

The people of Egypt are spoken of as if they were the virgin daughter of Egypt. AT: "people of Egypt" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metaphor]])

# disgrace

This word means a condition of feeling ashamed or the loss of respect.

# The earth is filled with your laments

Here "earth" is a metonym for the people of the earth and a generalization for the people who know what has happened to Egypt. All the people of the earth hearing the Egyptians crying is spoken of as if their laments filled the earth. AT: "All the people of the earth hear you crying" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metonymy]] and [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-hyperbole]] and [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metaphor]])

# for soldier stumbles against soldier; both of them fall together

Soldiers dying in battle is spoken of as if they were stumbling and falling down. AT: "for your soldiers die in battle" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metaphor]])

# translationWords

* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/gilead]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/virgin]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/egypt]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/heal]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/nation]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/earth]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/lament]]