# Egypt is a very beautiful young cow

The nation of Egypt, which was very strong and prosperous, is spoken of as if it were a beautiful young cow. AT: "Egypt is like a very beautiful heifer" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metaphor]])

# but a stinging insect

The enemy army coming to attack the Egyptians is spoken of as if the army were an insect that stings. AT: "but a powerful army like a stinging insect" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metaphor]])

# soldiers in her midst are like a fattened bull

The writer compares soldiers to "fattened bulls" because the soldiers are well cared for by the Egyptians just as a farmer takes care of a bull and makes it fat. (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-simile]])

# They will not stand together

To "stand together" is an idiom meaning to remain united. The writer is saying that the soldiers will not fight as a unit but will run away thinking only of saving themselves. (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-idiom]])

# the day of their disaster is coming against them

This speaks of a day as if it travels and arrives in a location. AT: "they will experience disaster on that day" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metaphor]])

# Egypt hisses like a snake and crawls away

The inability of the Egyptians to do anything to stop their enemy is spoken of as if they were snakes that can only hiss and crawl away. (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-simile]])

# They are going toward her like woodcutters with axes

The enemies coming with the weapons to destroy the Egyptians is spoken of as if they were woodcutters with axes preparing to cut down a tree. (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-simile]])

# translationWords

* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/names/egypt]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/cow]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/time]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/punish]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/serpent]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/ax]]