# He fought also with the king of the people of Ammon

You may need to translate so that the reader understands that Jothan led his army to fight. AT: "He also led his army to fight with the king of the people of Ammon" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-synecdoche]])

# with the king of the people of Ammon

You may need to translate so that the reader understands that the king of Ammon led his army to fight. AT: "with the king of Ammon and his army" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-synecdoche]])

# one hundred talents of silver

You may convert this to a modern measure. A "talent" is equivalent to 33 kilograms. AT: "100 talents of silver" or "3,300 kilograms of silver" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/translate-bweight]] and [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/translate-numbers]])

# ten thousand measures of wheat

You may convert this to a modern measure. The word translated here as "measure" is "cor" and is equivalent to 220 liters. AT: "10,000 measures of wheat" or "2,200 kiloliters of wheat" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/translate-bvolume]] and [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/translate-numbers]])

# ten thousand measures of barley

You may convert this to a modern measure. The word translated here as "measure" is "cor" and is equivalent to 220 liters. AT: "10,000 measures of barley" or "2,200 kiloliters of barley" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/translate-bvolume]] and [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/translate-numbers]])

# in the second and third years

"in the second and third years after he defeated them"

