# Now

This word marks a new part of the story.

# all the chosen men of Israel

This metonym represents the army of the nation of Israel. (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metonymy]])

# thirty thousand

"30,000" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/translate-numbers]])

# from Baalah in Judah to bring up from there the ark of God

It is implied that they are taking the ark to Jerusalem. AT: "from Baalah in Judah to take to Jerusalem the ark of God" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-explicit]])

# to bring up from there the ark of God

Jerusalem was higher than almost any other place in Israel, so it was normal for Israelites to speak of going up to Jerusalem and going down from it.

# to bring up

The word "bring" can be translated as "take." (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-go]])

# Baalah

This is the name of a place. (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/translate-names]])

# which is called by the name of Yahweh of hosts

Yahweh's name was written on the ark.

# who sits enthroned over the cherubim

You may need to make explicit that the cherubim are those on the lid of the ark of the covenant. The biblical writers often spoke of the ark of the covenant as if it were Yahweh's footstool upon which he rested his feet as he sat on his throne in heaven above. AT: "who sits on his throne above the cherubim on the ark of the covenant" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-explicit]])

# enthroned

to sit on a throne

# translationWords

* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/david]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/israel]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/raise]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/judah]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/arkofthecovenant]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/call]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/name]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/yahwehofhosts]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/cherubim]]