# Who will show us anything good?

This question is used either to ask for something or to express a wish about something that has not happened. AT: "Please show us something good!" or "We wish someone would show us something good!" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-rquestion]])

# Who will show us anything good?

Possible meanings are 1) showing something good represents bringing good things. AT: "Who will bring good things to us?" or 2) showing something good represents saying that good things have happened. AT: "Who will say that anything good has happened?" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metonymy]])

# lift up the light of your face on us

The writer speaks of Yahweh acting favorably towards them as if Yahweh's face shone a light on them. AT: "act favorably towards us" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metaphor]])

# You have given my heart more gladness

The heart represents the person. AT: "You have given me more gladness" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-synecdoche]])

# You have given my heart more gladness than others have

Here "gladness" is spoken of as if it is an object that can be given. The abstract noun "gladness" can be stated as "glad." AT: "You have made me more glad than others are" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metaphor]] and [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-abstractnouns]])

# when their grain and new wine abound

"New wine" may represent grapes. AT: "when they reap plentiful harvests of grain and grapes" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metonymy]])

# It is in peace that I will lie down and sleep

Peace is spoken of as if it were a place. This can be restated to remove the abstract noun "peace." AT: "I will be peaceful when I lie down and sleep" or "I will not be afraid of danger when I lie down and sleep" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metaphor]] and [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-abstractnouns]])

# make me safe and secure

The words "safe" and "secure" mean basically the same thing and emphasize complete safety. AT: "make me completely safe" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-doublet]])

# translationWords

* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/light]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/face]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/heart]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/grain]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/wine]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/peace]]