# Connecting Statement:

The author has stopped telling the story of Jesus' trial so he can tell the story of how Judas killed himself.

# General Information:

This event happened after Jesus' trial in front of the council of Jewish religious leaders, but we do not know if it happened before or during Jesus' trial before Pilate. (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-events]])

# Then when Judas

If your language has a way of showing that a new story is starting, you may want to use that here.

# that Jesus had been condemned

This can be stated in active form. AT: "that the Jewish leaders had condemned Jesus" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-activepassive]])

# the thirty pieces of silver

This was the money that the chief priests had given Judas to betray Jesus. See how you translated it in [Matthew 26:15](../26/14.md).

# innocent blood

This is an idiom that refers to the death of an innocent person. AT: "a person who does not deserve to die" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-idiom]])

# What is that to us?

The Jewish leaders use this question to emphasize that they do not care about what Judas said. AT: "That is not our problem!" or "That is your problem!" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-rquestion]])

# threw down the pieces of silver in the temple

Possible meanings are 1) he threw the pieces of silver while in the temple courtyard, or 2) he was standing in the temple courtyard, and he threw the pieces of silver into the temple.

# translationWords

* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/names/judasiscariot]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/betray]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/condemn]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/repent]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/silver]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/sin]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/innocent]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/blood]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/temple]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/hang]]