# Connecting Statement:

This continues the story of Jesus' trial before Pilate, which began in [Matthew 27:2](./01.md).

# Now

If your language has a way of continuing a story after a break from the main story line, you may want to use it here.

# the governor

"Pilate"

# You say so

Possible meanings are 1) by saying this, Jesus implied that he is the King of the Jews. AT: "Yes, as you said, I am" or "Yes. It is as you said" or 2) by saying this, Jesus was saying that Pilate, not Jesus, was the one calling him the King of the Jews. AT: "You yourself have said so" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-explicit]])

# But when he was accused by the chief priests and elders

This can be stated in active form. AT: "But when the chief priests and elders accused him" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-activepassive]])

# Do you not hear all the charges against you?

Pilate asks this question because he is surprised that Jesus remains silent. AT: "I am surprised that you do not answer these people who accuse you of doing bad things!" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-rquestion]])

# one word, so that the governor was greatly amazed

"Word" is a synocdoche for "response" or "answer". AT: "not even one word of response; this greatly amazed the governor" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-synecdoche]]).

# translationWords

* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/governor]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/kingofthejews]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/chiefpriests]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/names/pilate]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/word]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/amazed]]