# the Preparation

This is the day that people got everything ready for the Sabbath.

# were gathered together with Pilate

"met with Pilate"

# when that deceiver was alive

"when Jesus, the deceiver, was alive"

# he said, 'After three days will I rise again.'

This has a quotation within a quotation. It can be stated as an indirect quotation. AT: "he said that after three days he will rise again." or "he said that after three day he would rise again." (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-quotesinquotes]] and [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-quotations]])

# command that the tomb be made secure

This can be stated in active form. AT: "command your soldiers to guard the tomb" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-activepassive]])

# the third day

(See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/translate-ordinal]])

# his disciples may come and steal him

"his disciples may come and steal his body"

# his disciples may ... say to the people, 'He has risen from the dead,' 

This has a quotation within a quotation. It can be stated as an indirect quotation. AT: "his disciples may ... tell the people that he has risen from the dead," (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-quotesinquotes]] and [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-quotations]])

# from the dead

From among all those who have died. This expression describes all dead people together in the underworld. To rise from among them speaks of becoming alive again.

# and the last deception will be worse than the first

The understood information can be stated clearly. AT: "and if they deceive people by saying that, it will be worse than the way he deceived people before when he said that he was the Christ" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-ellipsis]])

# translationWords

* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/chiefpriests]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/pharisee]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/names/pilate]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/lord]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/deceive]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/raise]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/command]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/tomb]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/disciple]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/death]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/deceive]]