# Or else what will those do who are baptized for the dead?

Paul uses this question to teach the Corinthians. It can be stated in active form. AT: "Otherwise it would be useless for Christians to receive baptism for the dead." (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-rquestion]] and [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-activepassive]])

# If the dead are not raised at all, why are they baptized for them?

Paul uses a hypothetical situation to argue that the dead are raised. To say that the dead are not raised is to say that people should not be baptized for the dead. But some people, probably some members of the church in Corinth, are baptized for the dead, so he infers those people are baptized for the dead because they believe that the dead are raised. (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-hypo]])

# the dead are not raised

This can be translated in active form. AT: "God does not raise the dead" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-activepassive]])

# are not raised

"are not caused to live again"

# why are they baptized for them?

Paul uses this question to teach the Corinthians. It can be stated in active form. AT: "there would be no reason for them to have people baptize them on behalf of dead people." (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-rquestion]] and [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-activepassive]])

# Why then, are we in danger every hour?

Paul uses this question to teach the Corinthians. The reason he and others were in danger is that some people were angry that they taught that Jesus will raise people from death. AT: "If people will not rise from the dead, we gain nothing by being in danger every hour for teaching that people will rise." (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-rquestion]] and [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-explicit]])

# translationWords

* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/baptize]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/death]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/raise]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/hour]]