# Every day I face death!

Here "face death" represents knowing that he might die soon. He knew that some people wanted to kill him because they did not like what he was teaching.(See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metaphor]])

# This is as sure as my boasting in you

Paul uses this statement as evidence that he faces death every day. AT: "You can know that this is true, because you know about my boasting in you" or "You can know that this is true, because you know about how much I boast in you"

# my boasting in you, which I have in Christ Jesus our Lord

Paul boasted in them because of what Christ Jesus had done for them. AT: "my boasting in you, which I do because of what Christ Jesus our Lord has done for you" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-explicit]])

# my boasting in you

"the way I tell other people how good you are"

# What do I gain ... if I fought with beasts at Ephesus ... not raised?

Paul wants the Corinthians to understand without him having to tell them. This can be a statement. AT: "I gained nothing ... by fighting with beasts at Ephesus ... not raised." (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-rquestion]])

# I fought with beasts at Ephesus

Paul is referring to something that he actually did. Possible meanings are 1) Paul was speaking figuratively about his arguments with learned pagans or other conflicts with people who wanted to kill him or 2) he was actually put into the arena to fight against dangerous animals. (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metaphor]])

# Let us eat and drink, for tomorrow we die

Paul concludes that if there is no further life after death, it is better for us to enjoy this life as we can, for tomorrow our life will end without any further hope.

# translationWords

* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/declare]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/boast]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/christ]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/jesus]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/lord]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/beast]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/names/ephesus]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/death]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/raise]]