# As surely as God lives

This phrase shows that Job is taking an oath. Job compares the certainty that God is alive to the certainty of what he is saying. This is a way of making a solemn promise. AT: "I swear by God"

# has taken away my justice

Justice is spoken of as if it were an object that could be taken away or given. Taking it away represents refusing to treat Job with justice. AT: "has refused to treat me justly" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metaphor]])

# made my life bitter

Job's "life" being bitter represents Job feeling resentful toward God. AT: "has caused me to become resentful" or "has made me feel angry because of the unfair way he has treated me" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metonymy]])

# while my life is yet in me

This refers to the duration of the rest of his life. AT: "during the whole time that my life is yet in me" or "as long as my life is yet in me"

# while my life is yet in me

The abstract noun "life" can be expressed with the adjective "alive" or the verb "live." AT: "as long as I am still alive" or "while I still live" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-abstractnouns]])

# the breath from God is in my nostrils

"Breath ... in my nostrils" represents being able to breathe. "Breath from God" represents God making him able to breathe. AT: "God enables me to breathe" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metonymy]])

# nostrils

"nose"

# translationWords

* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/job]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/god]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/life]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/justice]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/almighty]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/breath]]