# I hold fast to my righteousness

Here "hold fast" is a metaphor that represents being determined to continue to say something. The abstract noun "righteousness" can be expressed with "righteous." AT: "I am determined to continue saying that I am righteous" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metaphor]] and [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-abstractnouns]])

# will not let it go

Here "will not let it go" is a metaphor that represents not stopping saying something. AT: "will not stop saying that I am righteous" or "will not stop saying so" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metaphor]])

# my thoughts will not reproach me

Here the phrase "my thoughts" represents Job. AT: "even in my thoughts, I will not reproach myself" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metonymy]])

# Let my enemy be ... let him who rises up against me be

The two clauses that start with these words share the same meaning. They are used together to emphasize Job's strong desire that this should happen. (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-parallelism]])

# Let my enemy be like a wicked man

How he wants his enemy to be like a wicked person can be stated clearly. AT: "Let my enemy be punished like a wicked man" or "Let God punish my enemy as he punishes wicked people" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-explicit]])

# let him who rises up against me be like an unrighteous man

How he wants this person to be like an unrighteous man can be stated clearly. AT: "let him who rises up against me be punished like an unrighteous man" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-explicit]])

# him who rises up against me

Here "rises up against me" is a metaphor meaning "opposes me." The whole phrase refers to Job's adversary. AT: "him who opposes me" or "my adversary" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metaphor]])