# For what is the hope of a godless man when ... when God takes away his life?

Job uses this question to say that such a man has no hope. This question can be translated as a simple statement. AT: "There is no hope for the godless when God ... takes away his soul." (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-rquestion]])

# when God cuts him off, when God takes away his life

These two phrases have the same meaning. AT: "when God cuts him off and takes away his life" or "when God causes him to die" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-parallelism]])

# cuts him off

This is a metaphor meaning "kills him" or "causes him to die" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metaphor]])

# takes away his life

This is a metaphor meaning "kills him" or "makes him stop living" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metaphor]])

# Will God hear his cry when trouble comes upon him?

Job uses this question to say that God will not help that person. This question can be translated as a simple statement. AT: "God will not hear his cry when trouble comes upon him." or "When trouble comes upon him and he cries out for help, God will not hear him." (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-rquestion]])

# Will God hear his cry

Here "hear his cry" represents responding to the godless man's cry and helping him. AT: "Will God respond to his cry" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metonymy]])

# Will he delight himself in the Almighty and call upon God at all times?

Job uses this question to say that the godless man will not do these things. This question can be translated as a simple statement. AT: "He will not delight himself in the Almighty and call upon God at all times." or "He will not be happy about what the Almighty does and he will not pray to God often." (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-rquestion]])

# translationWords

* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/hope]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/ungodly]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/cutoff]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/cry]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/trouble]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/delight]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/almighty]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/call]]