# Now when Sanballat

Here Nehemiah uses the word "now" to signal a new part of the story.

# Sanballat ... Tobiah

These are the names of a men. See how you translated this in [Nehemiah 2:10](../02/09.md). (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/translate-names]])

# it burned within him, and he was furiously angry

Here "it" refers to Sanballat's realization that the Jews are rebuilding the walls. This speaks of Sanballat becoming very angry as if his anger were a burning fire. AT: "he became furiously angry" or "he became very angry" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metaphor]])

# In the presence of his brothers

"In the presence of his kinsmen" or "In the presence of his clan"

# What are these feeble ... Will they restore ... Will they offer ... Will they finish the work in a day?

Sanballat poses these questions to mock the Jews. These can be written as statements. AT: "These feeble Jews can accomplish nothing. They will never restore the city for themselves. They will not offer sacrifices. They will not finish the work in a day." (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-rquestion]])

# feeble Jews

"weak Jews"

# in a day

This speaks of not finishing something quickly by saying that it cannot be accomplished in a day. AT: "quickly" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metaphor]])

# Will they bring to life the stones from the piles of rubble after they were burned?

Sanballat also poses this question to mock the Jews. This can be written as a statement. AT: "They will not bring to life again the stones from piles of rubble that were burned." (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-rquestion]])

# bring to life the stones from the piles of rubble after they were burned

This speaks of the people rebuilding the city as if they were bring it back to life. AT: "restore the city and rebuild its walls from the useless stones that were burned and turned into rubble" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metaphor]])

# from the piles of rubble after they were burned

This can be stated in active form. AT: "from piles of rubble that someone had burned" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-activepassive]])

# If only a fox went up on what they are building, it would break down their stone wall

Sanaballat mocks the wall and exaggerates how weak it is by saying that a fox could knock it down. AT: "That wall they are building is so weak that even if a little fox climbed up on it, their stone wall would fall to the ground" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-hyperbole]])