# General Information:

See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/writing-poetry]] and [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-parallelism]]

# Yahweh says this

Jeremiah often uses these words to introduce an important message from Yahweh. See how you translated a similar phrase in [Jeremiah 6:6](../06/06.md).

# Does Israel have no children? Is there no one to inherit anything in Israel? Why does Molech occupy Gad, and his people live in its cities?

Yahweh uses a question to express that the people of Israel should be living in Gad rather than those who worship Molech. This question can be translated as a statement. AT: "There are plenty of Israelites to inherit the land of Israel. The people who worship the false idol, Molech, should not live in Gad." (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-rquestion]])

# Why does Molech

Here "Molech" represents the people who worship Molech. AT: "Why do the people who worship Molech" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metonymy]])

# So look

This adds emphasis to what follows. AT: "Look and listen"

# days are coming ... when I will

Future time is spoken of as if the "days are coming." See how you translated this in [Jeremiah 7:32](../07/31.md). AT: "in the future ... I will" or "there will be a time ... when I will" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metaphor]])

# this is Yahweh's declaration

Yahweh speaks of himself by name to express the certainty of what he is declaring. See how you translated this in [Jeremiah 1:8](../01/07.md). AT: "this is what Yahweh has declared" or "this is what I, Yahweh, have declared" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-123person]])

# when I will sound the signal for battle

Yahweh causing an army to attack is spoken of as if he would sound the signal for the battle to start. AT: "when I will cause the enemy army to sound the signal for battle" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metaphor]])

# its villages will be set on fire

This can be stated in active form. AT: "the enemy army will burn their villages"

# For Israel will possess those who possessed him

Here "Israel" represents the people of Israel. "Those" refers to people of Ammon, who represent the land that they took from Israel. AT: "Then the people of Israel will again possess the land that the people of Ammon took away from them" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metonymy]])

# translationWords

* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/peoplegroup]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/names/ammon]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/yahweh]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/names/kingdomofisrael]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/children]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/inherit]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/names/molech]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/names/gad]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/life]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/declare]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/names/rabbah]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/fire]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/possess]]