# Howl in lament

"Cry loudly and weep"

# Heshbon

Translate the name of this city as you did in [Jeremiah 48:2](../48/01.md). Here "Heshbon" represents the people. AT: "people of Heshbon" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/translate-names]] and [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metonymy]])

# for Ai will be devastated

This can be stated in active form. AT: "for your enemies will devastate Ai" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-activepassive]])

# daughters of Rabbah

Possible meanings are 1) "daughters" represent the women who live in Rabbah. AT: "women of Rabbah" or 2) all the people in general are spoken of as if they are the daughters of Rabbah. AT: "people of Rabbah" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metaphor]])

# for Molech is going into captivity

"for your enemies will take your god Molech captive." This means the enemies will take the idol that represents Molech back to their land.

# Why do you brag about your valleys ... daughter?

Yahweh uses a question to scold the people for bragging about the large amount of fruit that grows in their valleys. This rhetorical question can be translated as a statement. AT: "Do not be proud of your valleys ... daughter." (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-rquestion]])

# Why do you brag about your valleys, your valleys that are so fruitful

Some versions of the Bible read, "Why do you brag about your strength, your strength which is ebbing away"

# faithless daughter

Here, the people of Ammon are spoken of as if they were a daughter. AT: "faithless people" or "rebellious people" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metaphor]])

# say, 'Who will come against me?'

The Ammonites use this question to state that they do not believe anyone can defeat them. It can be reworded as an indirect statement. AT: "falsely think that no one can defeat you." (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-rquestion]] and [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-quotations]])

# translationWords

* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/lament]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/names/ai]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/devastated]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/sackcloth]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/captive]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/priest]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/faithless]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/trust]]