# Yahweh of hosts says this

Jeremiah often uses these words to introduce an important message from Yahweh. See how you translated this in [Jeremiah 6:6](../06/06.md).

# Is there no longer any wisdom to be found in Teman?

Yahweh uses a question to scold the people of Teman for not acting wisely. This can be translated as a statement. AT: "It seems that there are no longer any wise people in Teman!" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-rquestion]])

# Teman

This is the name of a district in Edom. (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/translate-names]])

# Has good advice ... understanding? Has their wisdom become corrupted?

The same idea is expressed in two different ways. (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-parallelism]])

# Has good advice disappeared from those who have understanding?

Yahweh uses this question to scold the people. It can be translated as a statement. AT: "It seems that there are no longer any wise people in Teman district in Edom!" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-rquestion]])

# Has their wisdom become corrupted?

Yahweh uses this question to scold the people. This question may be translated as a statement. AT: "Their advice is no longer wise." (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-rquestion]])

# Dedan

The is the name of a city in Edom. (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/translate-names]])

# I am bringing the disaster of Esau on him at the time that I punish him

Here "Esau" represents the people of Edom. The Edomites were descendants of Esau. AT: "I will cause the people of Edom to experience disaster when I punish them" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metonymy]])

# on him ... I punish him

Yahweh is speaking to the people of Edom. This can be stated in second person. AT: "on you ... I punish you" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-123person]])

# translationWords

* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/edom]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/wise]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/understand]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/turn]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/esau]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/punish]]