# General Information:

Yahweh continues speaking about what will happen to Edom.

# If grape harvesters ... would they not leave a little bit behind?

Yahweh uses a question to cause the people to think about how grape harvesters leave some grapes behind. This can be translated as a statement. AT: "If grape harvesters ... they would certainly leave some grapes behind." (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-rquestion]])

# If thieves ... would they not steal only as much as they wanted?

Yahweh uses a question to cause the people to think about how thieves only take what they want. This question can be translated as a statement. AT: "If thieves ... they would only take as much as they wanted." (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-rquestion]])

# But I have stripped Esau bare

Yahweh causing an enemy army to come and take everything is spoken of as if Yahweh stripped all the clothes off of Esau. AT: "But I have sent an army to take everything away from Esau" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metaphor]])

# Esau ... his hiding ... he will not ... hide himself ... His children ... he is gone

Here "Esau" represents the people of Edom. AT: "the people of Edom ... their hiding ... they will not ... hide themselves ... Their children ... they are gone" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metonymy]])

# I have revealed his hiding places

"I have made known to the enemy soldiers where the people of Edom hide"

# translationWords

* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/grape]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/harvest]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/thief]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/names/esau]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/reveal]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/neighbor]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/life]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/trust]]