# General Information:

Yahweh continues speaking about what will happen to Edom.

# See

"Listen" or "Pay attention to what I say"

# must certainly drink some of the cup ... for you will certainly drink

Here "the cup" is a metonym that represents the contents in the cup that the people must drink. The people experiencing Yahweh's punishment is spoken of as if Yahweh's punishment were liquid in a cup and the people must drink it. AT: "must certainly experience my punishment ... for you will certainly experience my punishment" or "I will certainly still punish ... for I will certainly punish you" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metonymy]] and [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metaphor]])

# Do you yourself think you will go without punishment?

Yahweh uses a question to emphasize the people of Edom have sinned and will certainly be punished. This question can be translated as a statement. AT: "Certainly, you must be aware that you will personally experience my punishment for your sins." (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-rquestion]])

# you yourself

The words "you" and "yourself" refer to Edom, which represents the people of Edom. The word "yourself" is used to draw attention to the people of Edom. AT: "you yourselves" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-you]] and [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metonymy]] and [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-rpronouns]])

# this is Yahweh's declaration

Yahweh speaks of himself by name to express the certainty of what he is declaring. See how you translated this in [Jeremiah 1:8](../01/07.md). AT: "this is what Yahweh has declared" or "this is what I, Yahweh, have declared" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-123person]])

# Bozrah will become a horror, a disgrace, a devastation, and an object for cursing

The abstract nouns "a horror," "a disgrace," and "a devastation" can be translated as verbs. AT: "People will be horrified when they see that the city of Bozrah is devastated. And they will mock the city and use its name when they curse others" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-abstractnouns]])

# Bozrah

This is the name of a city in Edom. (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/translate-names]])

# All of its cities

"All of Edom's cities"

# translationWords

* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/oath]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/yahweh]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/declare]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/devastated]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/curse]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/forever]]