# General Information:

Yahweh continues speaking about what will happen to Edom.

# See

"Look" or "Listen"

# he will go up like a lion from the forests of the Jordan to the green pasturelands

This simile means that when Yahweh punishes the people of Edom, it will be fierce and unexpected like when a lion attacks sheep. This can be stated in first person. AT: "When I punish the people of Edom, it will be fierce and unexpected like when a lion comes out of forest and attacks sheep in the pasture" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-simile]] and [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-123person]])

# pasturelands

This is land covered with grass where animals feed on the grass.

# Edom run from it

Here "Edom" represents the people. "It" refers to the land. AT: "the people of Edom will run from their land" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metonymy]])

# who will be chosen

This can be stated in active form. AT: "whom I will choose" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-activepassive]])

# For who is like me, and who will summon me?

Yahweh uses the question to emphasize that no one is like him. This question can be translated as a statement. AT: "For no one is like me, no one can summon me." (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-rquestion]])

# who will summon me

"who will challenge me" or "who will call me to account"

# What shepherd is able to resist me?

Yahweh uses the question to show no one can defeat him. Here "shepherd" is a metaphor for "king" or "ruler." This question can be translated as a statement. AT: "No king is able to resist me!" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-rquestion]] and [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metaphor]])