# General Information:

Jeremiah speaks about what will happen to Kedar.

# Kedar

This is the name of a land far to the east of Israel. See how you translated this in [Jeremiah 2:10](../02/09.md). (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/translate-names]])

# Hazor

This is the name of kingdom or district far to the east of Israel. (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/translate-names]])

# now Nebuchadnezzar

Here "now" introduces background information about Nebuchadnezzar. (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/writing-background]])

# Nebuchadnezzar king of Babylon was going to attack

Here "Nebuchadnezzar" represents his army. AT: "the army of Nebuchadnezzar king of Babylon was going to attack" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metonymy]])

# Their tents and their flocks will be taken, along with their tent curtains and all of their equipment

This can be stated in active form. AT: "Your soldiers will take their flocks, tent curtains, and all of their equipment" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-activepassive]])

# their camels will be led away from them

This can be stated in active form. AT: "your soldiers will take their camels from them" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-activepassive]])

# men will shout to them, "Terror is on every side!"

Possible meanings are 1) these are men being attacked by the enemy. AT: "men will shout, 'We are terrified because terrible things are happening all around us!'" or 2) these are soldiers in the invading army. AT: "soldiers will shout at them, 'Be afraid because we are all around you!'"

# translationWords

* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/kingdom]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/yahweh]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/names/nebuchadnezzar]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/king]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/names/babylon]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/raise]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/tent]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/flock]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/camel]]