# General Information:

Yahweh continues telling Nebuchadnezzar to attack the people of Kedar and the kingdom of Hazor.

# For their camels will become plunder, and the abundance of their property will become war plunder

Yahweh is still speaking to Nebuchadnezzar as if he were there listening to him. This can be stated in second person. AT: "For your soldiers will take their camels and all of their property" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-apostrophe]] and [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-123person]])

# Then I will scatter to every wind

Here "every wind" represents the nations. AT: "Then I will send to nations in all different directions" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metaphor]])

# those who cut the corners of their hair

This probably refers to people who cut their hair short in order to honor a pagan god. Some modern versions interpret this Hebrew expression as "those who live on the edge of the wilderness." See how you translated a similar phrase in [Jeremiah 9:26](../09/25.md).

# I will bring disaster on them from every side

The phrase containing the abstract noun "disaster" can be replaced by the verb "destroy". AT: "I will bring their enemies from every side to destroy them" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-abstractnouns]])

# this is Yahweh's declaration

Yahweh speaks of himself by name to express the certainty of what he is declaring. See how you translated this in [Jeremiah 1:8](../01/07.md). AT: "this is what Yahweh has declared" or "this is what I, Yahweh, have declared" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-123person]])

# a lair of jackals

"a place where jackals live." Jackals are fierce wild dogs. See how you translated "jackals" in [Jeremiah 9:11](../09/10.md).

# No one will live there; no human being will stay there

These two lines mean basically the same thing and emphasize that Hazor will be completely uninhabited. (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-parallelism]])