# General Information:

Yahweh is speaking about what will happen to Elam.

# This is the word of Yahweh that came to Jeremiah

This idiom is used to introduce a special message from God. See how you translated this in [Jeremiah 14:1](../14/01.md), and make any changes as needed. AT: "This is the message that Yahweh gave to Jeremiah" or "This is the message that Yahweh spoke to Jeremiah" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-idiom]])

# Yahweh of hosts says this

Jeremiah often uses these words to introduce an important message from Yahweh. See how you translated this in [Jeremiah 6:6](../06/06.md).

# I am about to break the bowmen of Elam, the main part of their power

"The archers made Elam very powerful, but I will stop them"

# bowmen

men who are skilled with a bow and arrows

# I will bring the four winds from the four corners of the heavens

Here "four winds from the four corners" is an idiom that represents wind blowing from every direction. AT: "I will cause the winds to blow from every direction" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-idiom]])

# I will bring the four winds from the four corners of the heavens

Here "winds" represents nations. And the nations are a synecdoche representing the armies from those nations. Causing armies to come from all directions is spoken of as if Yahweh will cause wind to blow from all directions AT: "I will bring your enemies from every direction to attack you" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metaphor]] and [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-synecdoche]])

# to all of those winds

Here "winds" represents "nations." AT: "to all those nations" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metaphor]])

# There is no nation to which those scattered from Elam will not go

This can be stated in positive form. AT: "I will scatter the people of Elam to every nation on earth" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-doublenegatives]])

# translationWords

* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/wordofgod]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/jeremiah]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/prophet]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/elam]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/reign]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/zedekiah]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/king]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/kingdomofjudah]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/yahwehofhosts]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/power]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/heaven]]