# General Information:

Yahweh continues speaking about what will happen to Elam.

# I will shatter Elam

These words are a metonym for Yahweh causing enemies to destroy Elam. AT: "I will cause Elam's enemies to destroy Elam" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metonymy]])

# Elam

the people of Elam (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metonymy]])

# those who seek their lives

Seeking a person's life represents wanting or desiring to kill someone. AT: "those who want to kill them" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metaphor]])

# I will bring disaster against them

Yahweh causing people to experience disaster is spoken of as if he would bring disaster against them. AT: "I will cause them to experience disaster" or "I will cause terrible things to happen to them" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metaphor]])

# the fury of my wrath

This is the reason that Yahweh will destroy the people of Elam. AT: "because I am very angry" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/writing-connectingwords]])

# this is Yahweh's declaration

Yahweh speaks of himself by name to express the certainty of what he is declaring. See how you translated this in [Jeremiah 1:8](../01/07.md). AT: "this is what Yahweh has declared" or "this is what I, Yahweh, have declared" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-123person]])

# the sword after them

Here "sword" represents the enemy army carrying their weapons. AT: "the enemy army to pursue and kill them" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metonymy]])

# I will put my throne in Elam

Here "throne" represents Yahweh's right to rule and judge as the king. AT: "I will judge the people of Elam" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metonymy]])

# in later days

"in the future"

# I will bring back the fortunes of Elam

"I will cause things to go well for Elam again" or "I will cause Elam to live well again." See how similar words are translated in [Jeremiah 29:14](../29/12.md).

# translationWords

* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/adversary]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/wrath]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/sword]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/throne]]