# In the thirty-eighth year of Azariah king of Judah

It can be stated clearly that this is the thirty-eighth year of his reign. AT: "In year 38 of the reign of Azariah king of Judah" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-explicit]] and [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/translate-numbers]])

# Zechariah son of Jeroboam

This Jeroboam was the second king of Israel that had that name. He was the son of King Jehoash.

# reigned over Israel in Samaria for six months

Samaria is the city that Zechariah lived in when he was king of Israel. AT: "lived in Samaria and reigned over Israel for six months"

# He did what was evil

"Zechariah did what was evil"

# what was evil in the sight of Yahweh

The sight of Yahweh represents Yahweh's judgment. See how you translated this in [2 Kings 3:2](../03/01.md). AT: "what was evil in Yahweh's judgment" or "what Yahweh considers to be evil" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metaphor]])

# He did not depart from the sins of Jeroboam son of Nebat

Departing from sins represents refusing to do those sins. AT: "Zechariah did not refuse to commit the sins of Jeroboam son of Nebat" or "He sinned as Jeroboam son of Nebat had sinned" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metaphor]])

# Jeroboam son of Nebat

This Jeroboam was the first king of the ten northern tribes that made up the kingdom of Israel.

# who had caused Israel to sin

Here the word "Israel" represents the people of the kingdom of Israel. AT: "who had caused the people of Israel to sin" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metonymy]])