# Pul the king of Assyria came against the land

The phrase "Pul the king of Assyria" represents Pul and his army. AT: "Pul the king of Assyria came with his army against the land" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-synecdoche]])

# Pul the king of Assyria

Pul is the name of a man who was king of Assyria. He was also named Tiglath-Pileser. (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/translate-names]])

# came against the land

The phrase "came against" is an idiom meaning to attack. "The land" refers to the land of Israel and represents the people who live there. AT: "came with his army to attack the people of Israel" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-idiom]] and [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metonymy]])

# one thousand talents of silver

"1000 talents of silver." You may convert this to a modern measure. AT: "thirty-three thousand kilograms of silver" or "thirty-three metric tons of silver" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/translate-numbers]] and [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/translate-bmoney]])

# so that Pul's support might be with him

The abstract noun "support" can be translated with the verb "support." AT: "so that Pul might support him" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-abstractnouns]])

# to strengthen the kingdom of Israel in his hand

Having the kingdom in his hand represents ruling the kingdom. AT: "to strengthen his rule over the kingdom of Israel" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metaphor]])

# exacted this money from Israel

"took this money from Israel"

# fifty shekels of silver

You may convert this to a modern measure. AT: "six hundred grams of silver" or "three-fifths of a kilogram of silver" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/translate-bmoney]])

# did not stay there in the land

"did not stay there in Israel"

# translationWords

* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/assyria]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/silver]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/kingdomofisrael]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/hand]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/turn]]