# In the days of Pekah king of Israel

It can be stated clearly that this refers to the time of Pekah's reign. AT: "In the days of the reign of Pekah king of Israel" or "During the time that Pekah was king of Israel" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-explicit]])

# Tiglath-Pileser

In [2 Kings 15:19](./19.md) this man was called "Pul." (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/translate-names]])

# Ijon ... Abel Beth Maacah ... Janoah ... Kedesh ... Hazor ... Gilead ... Galilee ... Naphtali

These are the names of cities or regions. (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/translate-names]])

# He carried away the people to Assyria

Here "He" refers to Tiglath-Pileser and represents him and his army. Carrying the people to Assyria represents forcing them to go to Assyria. AT: "He and his army forced the people to go to Assyria (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-synecdoche]] and [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metaphor]])

# the people

It can be stated clearly which people these are. AT: "the people of those places" or "the people of Israel" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-explicit]])

# Hoshea ... Elah

These are men's names. (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/translate-names]])

# a conspiracy

A conspiracy is a secret plan by a group to do harm to someone or something.

# He attacked him and killed him

"Hoshea attacked Pekah and killed him"

# became king in his place

The phrase "in his place" is a metaphor meaning "instead of him." AT: "became king instead of Pekah" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metaphor]])

# in the twentieth year of Jotham son of Uzziah

It can be stated clearly that this is the twentieth year of his reign. AT: "In year 20 of the reign of Jotham son of Uzziah" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-explicit]] and [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/translate-numbers]])

# they are written in the book of the events of the kings of Israel

This can be stated in active form. AT: "you can read about them in the book of the events of the kings of Israel" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-activepassive]])

# translationWords

* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/names/assyria]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/names/kedesh]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/names/galilee]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/names/naphtali]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/names/hoshea]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/names/jotham]]