# Now

The word "now" shows a change of emphasis to Rebekah and Jacob. (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/writing-background]]).

# Rebekah heard it when Isaac spoke to Esau his son

"Rebekah heard Isaac speaking to his son Esau"

# Esau went ... bring it back. Rebekah spoke to Jacob

After Esau leaves, Rebekah speaks to Jacob because of what she heard. AT: "So when Esau went ... bring it back, Rebekah spoke to Jacob" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/writing-connectingwords]])

# to Esau his son ... to Jacob her son

Esau and Jacob were both sons of Isaac and Rebekah. They are called "his son" and "her son" to emphasize that one parent preferred one son over the other son.

# See here

The phrase "see here" adds emphasis to what follows. AT: "Listen carefully"

# He said, 'Bring me game and make me delicious food, that I may eat it and bless you in the presence of Yahweh before my death.'

This is a quotation within a quotation. It can be stated as an indirect quotation. AT: "He told Esau to 'hunt a wild animal, and to make the tasty meat that he loves.' Then before he dies, Isaac will bless Esau in the presence of Yahweh." (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-quotesinquotes]] and [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-quotations]])

# Bring me game

"Bring me a wild animal that you hunt and kill"

# make me delicious food

"cook for me the tasty meat that I love." See how this was translated in [Genesis 27:04](./03.md).

# bless you in the presence of Yahweh

"bless you before Yahweh"

# before my death

"before I die"

# translationWords

* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/names/rebekah]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/names/isaac]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/names/esau]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/names/jacob]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/yahweh]]