# Is he not rightly named Jacob?

Esau uses a question to emphasize his anger at Jacob. AT: "Jacob is certainly the right name for my brother!" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-rquestion]])

# Jacob

Translators may also add a footnote that says: "The name Jacob means 'he grasps the heel.' In the original language the name 'Jacob' also sounds like the word for 'he deceives.'"

# He took ... blessing

This speaks about a birthright as if it were an object that a person could take away. AT: "He tricked me into giving him the double inheritance that I should receive as firstborn son!" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metaphor]])

# now he has taken away my blessing

This speaks about a blessing as if it were an object that person could take away. AT: "now he has tricked you into blessing him instead of me" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metaphor]])

# Have you not reserved a blessing for me

Esau knows that his father cannot bless him with the same things that he blessed Jacob. Esau is asking if there is anything left to say to him that Isaac did not say while blessing Jacob.

# What more can I do for you, my son?

Isaac uses a question to emphasize that there is nothing else he can do. AT: "There is nothing else I can do for you!" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-rquestion]])

# translationWords

* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/names/esau]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/names/jacob]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/birthright]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/bless]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/lord]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/servant]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/grain]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/wine]]