# Connecting Statement:

Paul tells Timothy what the Spirit says will happen and encourages him in what he should teach.

# Now

This word is used here to mark a break in the main teaching. Here Paul starts to tell a new part of the teaching.

# in later times

Possible meanings are 1) this refers to a time after Paul dies or 2) this is at a latter time in Paul's own life.

# leave the faith

Paul speaks of people ceasing to trust in Christ as if they were physically leaving a place or an object. AT: "stop trusting in Jesus" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metaphor]])

# and pay attention

"and give attention" or "because they are paying attention"

# deceitful spirits and the teachings of demons

"spirits who trick people and the things that demons teach"

# demons in lying hypocrisy

This can be stated as a new sentence. AT: "demons. These people will be hypocrites and speak lies"

# Their own consciences will be branded

Possible meanings are 1) Paul is speaking of people who can no longer tell that they are doing wrong as if their minds are ruined like skin that someone has burned with a hot iron or 2) Paul is speaking of these people as if Satan had put a mark on these people with a hot iron to indicate that they belong to him. (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metaphor]])

# translationWords

* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/holyspirit]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/faith]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/deceive]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/demon]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/teach]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/hypocrite]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/conscience]]