# They will

"These people will"

# forbid to marry

It is implied that they will forbid believers to marry. AT: "forbid believers to marry" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-explicit]])

# to receive foods

It is implied that they will forbid only certain foods. AT: "they will require believers to abstain from certain foods" or "they will not allow people to eat certain foods" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-explicit]])

# everything created by God is good

This can be stated in active form. AT: "everything that God has created is good" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-activepassive]])

# Nothing that we take with thanksgiving is to be rejected

This can be stated in active form. AT: "We should not refuse anything for which we give thanks to God" or "Everything that we eat with thanksgiving is acceptable" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-activepassive]])

# it is sanctified by the word of God and prayer

Here "word of God" and "prayer" are used together to express one idea. The prayer is in agreement with the truth that God has revealed. AT: "it is dedicated for God's use by praying in agreement with his word" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-hendiadys]])

# it is sanctified

This can be stated in active form. AT: "we sanctify it" or "we have set it apart" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-activepassive]])

# word of God

Here "word" refers to God's message or what he has revealed. (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metonymy]])

# translationWords

* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/god]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/believe]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/true]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/reject]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/sanctify]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/wordofgod]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/pray]]