# Do not neglect the gift that is in you

Paul speaks of Timothy as if he were a container that could hold God's gifts. This can be stated in positive form. AT: "Do not neglect your spiritual gift" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metaphor]])

# Do not neglect

This can be stated in positive form. AT: "Be sure to use" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-activepassive]])

# which was given to you through prophecy

This can be stated in active form. AT: "which you received when leaders of the church spoke God's word" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-activepassive]])

# laying on of the hands of the elders

This was a ceremony in which the church leaders put their hands on Timothy and prayed that God would enable him to do the work he had commanded him to do.

# Care for these things. Be in them

Paul speaks of God's gifts to Timothy as if he could physically be in them. AT: "Do all these things and live according to them" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metaphor]])

# so that your progress may be evident to all people

Paul speaks of Timothy's increasing ability to serve God as if it were a physical object that others could look at. AT: "so other people will know that you are serving God better and better" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metaphor]])

# Give careful attention to yourself and to the teaching

"Conduct yourself carefully and give attention to the teaching" or "Control your own behavior and give attention to the teaching"

# Continue in these things

"Continue to do these things"

# you will save yourself and those who listen to you

Possible meanings are 1) Timothy will save himself and those who hear him from God's judgment or 2) Timothy will save himself and those who hear him from the influence of false teachers.