# General Information:

This continues Yahweh's lawsuit against the people of Israel. (See: [Micah 6:1-2](./01.md))

# My people, what have I done to you? How have I wearied you? Testify against me!

God uses questions to emphasize that he is a good God, and he has done nothing to cause the people to stop worshiping him. AT: "My people, I have been good to you. I have done nothing to make you tired of me. If you think I have, testify against me, now." (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-rquestion]])

# to you ... wearied you? Testify ... brought you ... rescued you ... Miriam to you ... remember ... you went ... you may know

Yahweh speaks to the people as if they were one man, so all instances of "you" and all the commands are masculine singular. (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-you]])

# house of bondage

A house is a metaphor for a place in which one lives for a long time. The abstract noun "bondage" can be translated as "to be slaves." AT: "the place where you were slaves for a long time" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metaphor]])

# what Balak ... devised

"the plans Balak ... made to harm you

# how Balaam ... answered him

Possible meanings are 1) Balaam obeyed Balak by coming when Balak called him, AT: "how Balaam ... did what Balak asked him to do" or 2) Balaam explained to Balak why Balaam had blessed the Israelites instead of cursing them as Balak had commanded. AT: "what Balaam told Balak" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-explicit]])

# Beor

This is the name of Balaam's father. (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/translate-names]])

# Shittim

This is the name of a place in Moab.

# so you may know the righteous acts of Yahweh

Yahweh refers to himself by his own name. AT: "so that you may remember the righteous things that I, Yahweh, have done for you" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-123person]])

# translationWords

* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/peopleofgod]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/testimony]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/egypt]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/house]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/enslave]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/moses]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/aaron]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/miriam]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/mind]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/king]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/moab]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/balaam]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/gilgal]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/righteous]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/yahweh]]