# What should I bring to Yahweh ... God? Should I come ... old? Will Yahweh be pleased ... oil? Should I give ... sin?

Micah speaks as if he were a person who truly wanted to know what God expects him to do. Possible meanings are 1) he asks questions and then in verse 8 answers the questions he has asked or 2) he is using questions to teach the people. AT: "I know that I do no need to bring to Yahweh ... God, or come ... old, and that Yahweh will not be pleased ... oil or if I give ... sin." (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-rquestion]])

# thousands of rams ... ten thousand rivers of oil

"rams in groups of 1,000 ... 10,000 rivers of oil" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-rquestion]] and [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/translate-numbers]])

# He has told you

"Yahweh has told you"

# good, and what Yahweh requires from you: Act ... God

Many versions read, "good. And what does Yahweh require from you? He wants you to act ... God." or "good. And what does Yahweh require from you but to act ... God?"

# love kindness

The abstract noun "kindness" can be translated using the adjective "kind." AT: "love being kind to people" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-abstractnouns]])

# translationWords

* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/yahweh]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/bow]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/god]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/burntoffering]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/cow]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/sheep]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/oil]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/firstborn]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/transgression]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/fruit]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/sin]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/good]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/justice]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/walk]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/humble]]