# General Information:

Yahweh continues speaking to the people of Israel.

# The regulations made by Omri have been kept, and all the deeds of the house of Ahab

This can be translated in active form, and you may need to supply the words that the ellipsis omitted. AT: "You have done what Omri commanded, and you have done the same things the house of Ahab did" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-activepassive]])

# Omri ... Ahab

Both of these men were kings over the northern kingdom of Israel. God considered both of them to be very wicked. (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/translate-names]])

# house of Ahab

The word "house" is a metonym for the family that lives in the house. AT: "the descendants of Ahab"

# You walk by their advice

Walking on a path is a metaphor for how a person lives his life. AT: "You do what Omri and Ahab told the people to do" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metaphor]])

# I will make you, city, a ruin, and you inhabitants an object of hissing

Micah speaks to the people of the city, who can hear him, as if he were speaking to the city itself, which cannot hear him. You may need to make explicit the words that the ellipsis omits. AT: "I will make your city a ruin, and I will make you inhabitants an object of hissing" or "I will make you, city, a ruin, and I will cause everyone who sees you, inhabitants of the city, to hiss at you" or "I will make the city a ruin, and I will make people hiss at the inhabitants" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-apostrophe]])

# you will bear the reproach of my people

"you will suffer because my people will reproach you"

# translationWords

* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/works]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/house]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/ahab]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/walk]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/mock]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/peopleofgod]]