# the name of Yahweh ... like a devouring fire

Yahweh being extremely angry is spoken of as if he were a large fire. (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metaphor]])

# the name of Yahweh comes

Here "name" represents Yahweh. AT: "Yahweh comes" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metonymy]])

# His lips are full of fury, and his tongue is like a devouring fire

Here "lips" and "tongue" are metonyms that represent Yahweh speaking. And, Yahweh speaks with so much anger and power that it is spoken of as if his tongue were a fire. AT: "When he speaks his fury is like a fire that destroys everything" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-synecdoche]] and [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-simile]])

# His breath is like an overflowing torrent

This compares the air coming out of Yahweh's mouth to a flood to emphasize its power to destroy. (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-simile]])

# to sift the nations with the sieve of destruction

Yahweh separating the people of the nations and destroying the wicked people is spoken of as if Yahweh puts the nations in a sieve. This can be translated as a new sentence. AT: "Yahweh will separate and destroy the wicked people of the nations" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metaphor]])

# His breath is a bridle in the jaws of the peoples to cause them to wander away

Yahweh having the power to cause people's plans to fail or causing them to be destroyed is spoken of as if his breath were a bridle that steers people off the correct path. (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metaphor]])

# a bridle in the jaws of the peoples

A "bridle" is a device that people put over a horse's head to guide it. The bridle contains a small piece called a "bit" that goes in the horse's mouth. AT: "a bridle on the heads of the peoples" or "a bit in the jaws of the peoples" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/translate-unknown]])