# thunderous voice

This is personification, referring to the thunder as the voice of God. AT: "voice, which was as loud as thunder" or "very loud voice" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-personification]])

# lightning lit up the world

This is an exaggeration to emphasize that the lightning lit up everything the writer could see. AT: "lightning lit up everything as far as you could see" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-hyperbole]])

# Your path ... your way

These two phrases have similar meanings and are combined for emphasis. (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-doublet]])

# your footprints

Asaph is speaking of Yahweh as if Yahweh was a person with feet. While this is personification, it should be translated literally, if possible. (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-personification]])

# your footprints were not seen

This can be stated in active form. AT: "no one saw your footprints" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-activepassive]])

# You led your people like a flock

This simile compares God's people to a flock of animals. (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-simile]])

# by the hand of

The phrase "by the hand of" here means "by the action of" or "through the action of."

# hand

Here "hand" is synechdoche for the whole person. (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-synecdoche]])

# translationWords

* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/voice]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/world]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/earth]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/water]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/flock]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/hand]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/names/moses]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/names/aaron]]