## translationWords

* [[en:tw:obey]]

## translationNotes

* **Now if we put the horses' bits** - James compares a person's tongue to a bit. A bit is a small piece of metal that is placed in a horse's mouth to control where it goes. This describes how small things can have power over something bigger. James is showing that what people say affects their lives and the lives of everyone they know. (See: [[en:ta:vol1:translate:figs_metaphor]])
* **Now if** - "if" or "when"
* **if we put the horses' bits into their mouths** - A "horse" is a large animal used to carry things. This could be translated as "if we put bits into horses' mouths."
* **Notice also that ships…are steered by a very small rudder** - Next, James compares a person's tongue with a rudder on a ship. A "ship" is like a truck that floats on water. A "rudder" is a small piece of wood or metal at the back of the ship used to control where it goes. The word "rudder" could also be translated as "tool." James is making the same point as he was with the horse's bit. A small thing can have power over something much bigger.
* **they are so large** - The word "they" refers to the ships.
* **are driven by strong winds** - This can be translated with an active verb: "strong winds push them" (See: [[en:ta:vol2:translate:figs_activepassive]])
* **are steered by a very small rudder wherever the pilot desires to turn** - This can be translated with an active verb: "have a small tool that a person can use to control where the ship goes"
