# the word of Yahweh came to Jeremiah, saying,

This idiom is used to introduce a special message from God. See how you translated a similar phrase in [Jeremiah 1:4](../01/04.md). AT: "Yahweh gave a message to Jeremiah. He said," or "Yahweh spoke this message to Jeremiah:" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-idiom]])

# to Jeremiah

It is not clear why Jeremiah is referring to himself by name here. You may translate using first person, as the UDB does. (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-123person]])

# Yahweh of hosts ... says this

Jeremiah often uses these words to introduce an important message from Yahweh. See how you translated this in [Jeremiah 6:6](../06/06.md).

# Will you not receive correction and listen to my words?

Yahweh is telling Israel to listen carefully to his rebuke. AT: "You must certainly receive this correction and listen to my words." (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-rquestion]])

# this is Yahweh's declaration

Yahweh speaks of himself by name to express the certainty of what he is declaring. See how you translated this in [Jeremiah 1:8](../01/07.md). AT: "this is what Yahweh has declared" or "this is what I, Yahweh, have declared" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-123person]])

# The words of Jonadab son of Rekab that he gave to his sons as a command, not to drink any wine, have been observed

This can be stated in active form. AT: "The sons of Jonadab son of Rekab have observed their father's command to not drink wine" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-activepassive]])

# Jonadab ... Rekab

These are the names of men. (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/translate-names]])

# translationWords

* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/wordofgod]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/yahwehofhosts]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/israel]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/judah]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/receive]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/declare]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/proclaim]]