# General Information:

God is often spoken of as if he were a warrior.

# He bent his bow

A soldier has to bend his bow in order to shoot an arrow from it. The author speaks of God deciding to cause him trouble as if God were a warrior ready to shoot him with an arrow. See how you translated this in [Lamentations 2:4](../02/03.md). AT: "It was as if God made his bow ready to shoot"

# He pierced my kidneys with the arrows of his quiver

The author speaks of the deep grief he feels as if God had shot his kidneys with an arrow. AT: "My grief is great. It is as if he pierced my kidneys with the arrows of his quiver" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metaphor]])

# my kidneys

The kidneys are abdominal organs that move urine into the bladder. They are a metaphor for a person's emotions. AT: "deep into my body" or 2) "my heart" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metaphor]])

# quiver

a bag worn on the back in which to store arrows

# a laughingstock to all my people

The word "all" is a generalization, meaning "most." AT: "a laughingstock to most of my people" or "someone whom all my people mock" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-hyperbole]])

# laughingstock

someone whom many people mock

# He filled me with bitterness

Here "bitterness" represents suffering. It is referred to as if it were something that could fill the speaker. AT: "He has caused me to suffer very much" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metaphor]])

# forced me to drink wormwood

Wormwood is the bitter juice from the leaves and flowers of a certain plant. Drinking that bitter juice represents suffering. AT: "it is as though he forced me to drink something very bitter" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metaphor]])