# you defended my case, you saved my life

The author speaks of God keeping him from being killed by his enemies as if God had defended him in court as a lawyer defends someone, and kept him from being killed. AT: "you saved my life from my enemies. It is as though you defended me in court" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metaphor]])

# you defended my case

Here "defended my case" represents arguing for him. AT: "you argued my case for me" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metaphor]])

# judge my case

Here God is no longer pictured as a lawyer, but as the judge. It can be stated clearly that he wanted God to judge in his favor. AT: "make a decision about me, and show my enemies that I am right" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metaphor]] and [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-explicit]])

# You have seen their insults, all their plots against me

The abstract nouns "insults" and "plots" can be expressed with verbs. AT: "You have seen how they have insulted me and how they have plotted against me many times" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-abstractnouns]])

# You have heard their scorn ... and all their plans regarding me

The abstract noun "scorn" can be expressed with the verbs "taunt" or "mock". It can be stated clearly that the plans were to harm him. AT: "You heard how they have taunted me ... and all they plan to do to me" or "You have heard them mock me ... and plan ways to harm me" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-abstractnouns]])

# translationWords

* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/lordgod]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/trial]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/save]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/yahweh]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/oppress]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/judge]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/avenge]]