# Look

This word is used here to draw someone's attention to what is said next. AT: "Listen"

# the name of Yahweh

Here Yahweh is referred to by his name. AT: "Yahweh" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metonymy]])

# over the place

"over the diseased area of my skin" or "over my leprosy"

# Are not Abanah and Pharpar, the rivers of Damascus, better than all the waters of Israel?

Naaman uses this rhetorical question to emphasize that the Abanah and the Pharpar are better rivers than the Jordan. This can be written as a statement. AT: "The Abanah and the Pharpar Rivers, in my home country of Aram, are much better than any of the rivers of Israel! (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-rquestion]])

# Abanah and Pharpar

These are the names of rivers. (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/translate-names]])

# Can I not bathe in them and be clean?

Naaman uses this rhetorical question to emphasize that he could have bathed in the other rivers easily. He believes that bathing in them could heal him just as bathing in the Jordan could. This can be written as a statement. AT: "I should have just bathed in them and been healed!" or "I could just as easily have bathed in them and been healed!" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-rquestion]] and [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-irony]])

# went away in a rage

"was very angry as he walked away"

# translationWords

* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/angry]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/call]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/name]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/hand]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/damascus]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/water]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/israel]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/turn]]