# My father

The servants were showing respect to Naaman by addressing him as "my father" or "sir."

# would you not have done it?

The servant uses this question to carefully rebuke Naaman. AT: "you surely would have done it!" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-rquestion]])

# How much rather then

The servant is comparing how much more willing Naaman should be to obey a simple command since he is willing to obey a difficult one. AT: "How much more willing you should be to obey" or "Should you not be even more willing to obey" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-ellipsis]])

# How much rather then, when he says to you to simply, 'Dip yourself and be clean?

The servant uses this rhetorical question to emphasize to Naaman that he should obey Elisha's command. This question can be written as statement. AT: "You should be even more willing to obey when he says to you simply, 'Dip yourself and be clean.'" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-rquestion]])

# the man of God

"Elisha, the man of God"

# His flesh was restored again like the flesh of a little child

This speaks how smooth Namaan's skin is after he is healed by comparing it to the skin of a young child. AT: "His flesh was restored again and was as soft as the flesh of a young child" or "His skin was well again and was smooth like a young child's skin" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-simile]])

# His flesh

"His skin"

# he was healed

This can be stated in active form. AT: "his leprosy was gone" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-activepassive]])

# translationWords

* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/servant]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/command]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/names/jordanriver]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/obey]]