# If not

The understood information may be supplied. AT: "If you will not take the gifts I have brought for you" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-ellipsis]])

# let there be given to your servant

This can be stated in active from. AT: "let me have" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-activepassive]])

# two mule loads of earth

Naaman is asking to take soil from Israel and place it in sacks for two mules to carry home with him. He then plans to build an altar on the soil. AT: "as much soil from Israel as two mules can carry, so that I can build an altar to Yahweh" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-explicit]])

# your servant

Naaman refers to himself as Elisha's servant to honor him.

# will offer neither burnt offering nor sacrifice to any god but Yahweh

This can be written in positive form. AT: "will not offer burnt offering or sacrifice to any god but Yahweh" or "will only offer burnt offerings and sacrifices to Yahweh" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-doublenegatives]])

# when my king

This is referring to the king of Aram, the king that Namaan works for.

# he leans on my hand

"he supports himself on my arm." This means that Naaman assists the king when he bows in the house of Rimmon because the king is either old or sick.

# Go in peace

"Go home and do not worry" or "Leave without fear"

# translationWords

* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/donkey]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/burntoffering]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/sacrifice]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/falsegod]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/pardon]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/king]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/house]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/rimmon]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/worship]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/bow]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/peace]]