# He had traveled

"Naaman had traveled"

# Gehazi

See how you translated this man's name in [2 Kings 4:12](../04/12.md). (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/translate-names]])

# Look

This word is used here to draw someone's attention to what is said next. AT: "Listen"

# has spared this Naaman the Aramean

"has let Naaman the Aramean leave too easily"

# by not receiving

"by not accepting"

# from his hands

Here Naaman is referred to by his hands to emphasize the act of giving. AT: "from him" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-synecdoche]])

# As Yahweh lives

"As surely as Yahweh lives." Here Gehazi compares the certainty that Yahweh is alive to the certainty of what he has decided to do. This is a way of making a solemn promise. AT: "As Yahweh lives, I promise" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-simile]])

# of the sons of the prophets

This does not mean that they were the sons of prophets, but rather, that they were a group of prophets. See how you translated this phrase in [2 Kings 2:3](../02/03.md). AT: "from among the prophets there" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-idiom]])

# Please give them a talent of silver and two changes of clothes

Gehazi is asking Naaman to give these things to him so that he can take them and give them to the prophets. AT: "Please give me a talent of sliver and two changes of clothes to give to them" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-explicit]])

# See

This word is used here to draw someone's attention to what is said next. AT: "Listen"

# a talent of silver

This can be written in modern measurements. AT: "33 kilograms of silver" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/translate-bweight]])

# translationWords

* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/lord]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/aram]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/chariot]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/ephraim]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/prophet]]