# Was not my spirit with you when the man turned his chariot to meet you?

Elisha uses this rhetorical question to emphasize that Yahweh allowed him to see what Gehazi had done. This can be written as a statement. AT: "You should have realized that my spirit could see you when Naaman stopped his chariot and talked to you." (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-rquestion]])

# Is this a time to accept money ... female servants?

Elisha uses this rhetorical question to emphasize that this is not the time take gifts. This can be written as a statement. AT: "This is not the time to accept money ... female servants." (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-rquestion]])

# the leprosy of Naaman will be on you and your descendants

This speaks of Gehazi and his descendant getting leprosy as if Naaman's leprosy was taken from him and given to Gehazi. AT: "you and your descendants will have leprosy, just as Naaman had leprosy"

# So Gehazi went out from his presence

The phrase "his presence" refers to the area where Elisha could see him. This means that he left the room where Elisha was. AT: "When Gehazi left the room, he was" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-idiom]])

# as white as snow

Leprosy makes skin white. Here Gehazi's leprous skin is compared to the color of snow. AT: "with skin that was white like snow" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-simile]])

# translationWords

* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/spirit]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/olive]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/vineyard]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/sheep]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible//ox]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/descendant]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/forever]]