# General Information:

These verses continue the "thirty sayings" ([Proverbs 22:20](../22/20.md)).

# Through wisdom a house is built

The abstract noun "wisdom" can be translated as an adjective. These words can be translated in active form. AT: "People need to be wise if they are to build a good house" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-abstractnouns]] and [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-activepassive]])

# by understanding it is established

The abstract noun "understanding" can be translated as a verb. These words can be translated in active form. AT: "People need to understand what is morally good and what is morally bad if they are to establish a house" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-abstractnouns]] and [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-activepassive]] and [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-explicit]])

# it is established

The word "established" means made stable and strong. The word "house" is a metonym for the family that lives in the house, and the house being physically stable and strong is a metaphor for a family that lives in peace. (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metonymy]] and [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metaphor]])

# By knowledge the rooms are filled

The abstract noun "knowledge" can be translated as a verb. These words can be translated in active form. AT: "People need to know what is precious and pleasant if they are to fill their rooms" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-abstractnouns]] and [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-activepassive]] and [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-explicit]])

# translationWords

* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/wise]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/house]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/know]]