# the word of Yahweh came

This is an idiom that means Yahweh spoke. "Yahweh spoke his message" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-idiom]])

# the word of Yahweh

"the message of Yahweh"

# Yahweh

This is the name of God that he revealed to his people in the Old Testament. See the translationWord page about Yahweh concerning how to translate this.

# Amittai

This is the name of Jonah's father. (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/translate-names]])

# Get up and go to Nineveh, that great city

"Go to the important city of Nineveh"

# Get up and go

This is a common expression for traveling to distant places. (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-idiom]])

# speak out against it

God is referring to the people of the city. AT: "warn the people" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metonymy]])

# their wickedness has risen up before me

"I know they have been continually sinning"

# got up to run away from the presence of Yahweh

"ran away from Yahweh." "got up" is referring to Jonah leaving where he was. (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-idiom]])

# the presence of Yahweh

Here Yahweh is represented by his presence. (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metonymy]])

# go to Tarshish

"and went to Tarshish." Tarshish was in the opposite direction to Nineveh. This can be made explicit. AT: "went in the opposite direction, toward Tarshish" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-explicit]])

# He went down to Joppa

"Jonah went to Joppa"

# ship

A "ship" is a very large type of boat that can travel on the sea and carry many passengers or heavy cargo.

# So he paid the fare

"There Jonah paid for the trip"

# boarded the ship

"got on the ship"

# with them

The word "them" refers to the others who were going on the ship.

# away from the presence of Yahweh

Here Yahweh is represented by his presence. AT: "away from Yahweh" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metonymy]])

# translationWords

* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/wordofgod]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/yahweh]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/jonah]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/nineveh]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/evil]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/tarshish]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/joppa]]