# So the captain came to him and said to him

"The man in charge of the ship went to Jonah and said"

# What are you doing sleeping?

"Why are you sleeping?" He used this rhetorical question to scold Jonah. AT: "Stop sleeping!" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-rquestion]])

# Get up!

This refers to doing some activity. For Jonah, the Captain is telling him to wake up and pray to his god for safe passage. (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-idiom]])

# Call upon your god!

"Pray to your god!" "Call" refers to getting the attention of someone. (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-idiom]])

# Maybe your god will notice us and we will not perish

The implicit information that Jonah's god might save them could be made explicit. AT: "Maybe your god will hear and save us so that we will not die" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-explicit]])

# They all said to each other

"The sailors all said to each other"

# Come, let us cast lots, so that we may know who is the cause of this evil that is happening to us

"We should cast lots to know who has caused this trouble." The men believed that the gods would control how the lots fell in order to tell them what they wanted to know. This was a form of divination.

# this evil

This refers to the terrible storm.

# the lot fell to Jonah

"the lot showed that Jonah was the guilty person"

# translationWords

* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/call]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/god]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/lots]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/evil]]