# General Information:

Here the writer begins a new part of the story in which Jesus spends 40 days in the wilderness, where Satan tempts him. In verse 4, Jesus rebukes Satan with a quotation from Deuteronomy.

# Jesus was led up by the Spirit

This can be stated in active form. AT: "the Spirit led Jesus" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-activepassive]])

# to be tempted by the devil

This can be stated in active form. AT: "so the devil could tempt Jesus" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-activepassive]])

# the devil ... The tempter

These refer to the same being. You may have to use the same word to translate both.

# he had fasted ... he was hungry

These refer to Jesus.

# forty days and forty nights

"40 days and 40 nights." This refers to 24-hour periods. AT: "40 days" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/translate-numbers]])

# If you are the Son of God, command

It is best to assume that Satan knew that Jesus is the Son of God. Possible meanings are 1) this is a temptation to do miracles for Jesus' own benefit. AT: "You are the Son of God, so you can command" or 2) this is a challenge or accusation. AT: "Prove that you are the Son of God by commanding"

# the Son of God

This is an important title for Jesus that describes his relationship to God. (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/guidelines-sonofgodprinciples]])

# command these stones to become bread.

You could translate this with a direct quotation. AT: "say to these stones, 'Become bread.'" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-quotations]])

# bread

Here "bread" refers to food in general. AT: "food" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-synecdoche]])

# It is written

This can be stated in active form. AT: "Moses wrote this in the scriptures long ago" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-activepassive]])

# Man shall not live on bread alone

This implies that there is something more important to life than food.

# but by every word that comes out of the mouth of God

Here "word" and "mouth" refer to what God says. AT: "but by listening to everything that God says" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metonymy]])

# translationWords

* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/jesus]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/holyspirit]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/desert]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/tempt]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/satan]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/fast]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/sonofgod]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/bread]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/written]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/god]]