# General Information:

In verses 15 and 16, the writer quotes the prophet Isaiah to show that Jesus' ministry in Galilee was a fulfillment of prophecy.

# This happened

This refers to Jesus' going to live in Capernaum.

# what was said

This can be stated in active form. AT: "what God said" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-activepassive]])

# The land of Zebulun and the land of Naphtali ... Galilee of the Gentiles! The people who sat

These territories describe the same area. The list of territories can be included in the following sentence. AT: "In the territory of Zebulun and Naphtali ... in the territory of Galilee where many Gentiles live, the people who sat"

# toward the sea

This is the Sea of Galilee.

# The people who sat in darkness have seen a great light

Here "darkness" is a metaphor for not knowing the truth about God. And "light" is a metaphor for God's true message that saves people from their sin. (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metaphor]])

# to those who sat in the region and shadow of death, upon them has a light arisen

This basically has the same meaning as the first part of the sentence. Here "those who sat in the region and shadow of death" is a metaphor. It represents those who did not know God. These people were in danger of dying and being separated from God forever. (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-parallelism]] and [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metaphor]])

# translationWords

* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/fulfill]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/names/isaiah]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/prophet]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/names/zebulun]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/names/naphtali]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/names/jordanriver]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/names/galilee]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/gentile]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/darkness]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/light]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/death]]