# Connecting Statement:

This is the end of the part of the story about the beginning of Jesus' ministry in Galilee. These verses summarize what he did and how the people responded. (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/writing-endofstory]])

# teaching in their synagogues

"teaching in the synagogues of the Galileans" or "teaching in the synagogues of those people"

# preaching the gospel of the kingdom

Here "kingdom" refers to God's reign as king. AT: "preaching the good news about how God will show himself as king" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metonymy]])

# every kind of disease and sickness

The words "disease" and "sickness" are closely related but should be translated as two different words if possible. "Disease" is what causes a person to be sick.

# sickness

is the physical weakness or affliction that results from having a disease.

# those possessed by demons

This can be stated in active form. AT: "the demon-possessed" or "those whom demons control" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-activepassive]])

# the epileptic

"those who sometimes had seizures" or "those who sometimes became unconscious and moved uncontrollably"

# paralytic

"those who could not walk"

# the Decapolis

This name means "the Ten Towns." This is the name of a region to the southeast of the Sea of Galilee. (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/translate-names]])

# translationWords

* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/jesus]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/galilee]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/teach]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/synagogue]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/preach]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/goodnews]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/kingdomofgod]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/heal]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/syria]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/demonpossessed]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/demon]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/jerusalem]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/judea]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/jordanriver]]