# The word that came to Jeremiah from Yahweh, saying, "Arise

This idiom is used to introduce a special message from God. See how you translated a similar phrase in [Jeremiah 7:1](../07/01.md). AT: "This is the message that Yahweh gave to Jeremiah. He said, 'Arise" or "This is the message that Yahweh spoke to Jeremiah: 'Arise" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-idiom]])

# the potter's house

"the workshop of the potter." A potter is someone who makes pots from clay.

# behold!

The word "behold" alerts us to a new person in the story. Your language may have a way of doing this.

# on the potter's wheel

The potter's wheel is a small table that spins. A potter uses it to make pots.

# the object of clay that he was molding was ruined in his hand

The word "ruined" means that the object had some kind of imperfection in it. This can be stated in active form. AT: "the object of clay that he was molding with his hands was not good" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-activepassive]])

# was molding

"was forming" or "was shaping"

# so he changed his mind

This idiom means to decide to do something else. AT: "so he made a different choice" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-idiom]])

# that seemed good in his eyes to do

Here the word "eyes" represents sight and sight represents one's opinion. AT: "as he thought best to do" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metonymy]])

# translationWords

* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/wordofgod]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/names/jeremiah]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/raise]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/ruin]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/mind]]