# the word of Yahweh came to me, saying, "Should

This idiom is used to introduce a special message from God. See how you translated it in [Jeremiah 1:4](../01/04.md). AT: "Yahweh gave me a message. He said, 'Should" or "Yahweh spoke this message to me: 'Should" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-idiom]])

# Should I not be able to act like this potter with you, house of Israel?

With this question, Yahweh emphasizes his authority to do as he pleases with Israel. AT: "I am allowed to act toward you, house of Israel, like the potter acts toward the clay." (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-rquestion]])

# house of Israel

The word "house" is a metonym for the family that lives in the house. In this case it refers to the kingdom of Israel. See how you translated this in [Jeremiah 3:18](../03/17.md). AT: "Israel" or "kingdom of Israel" or "people of Israel" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metonymy]])

# this is Yahweh's declaration

Yahweh speaks of himself by name to express the certainty of what he is declaring. See how you translated this in [Jeremiah 1:8](../01/07.md). AT: "this is what Yahweh has declared" or "this is what I, Yahweh, have declared" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-123person]])

# Behold

"Pay attention, because what I am about to say is both true and important"

# Like clay in a potter's hand—that is how you are in my hand

Yahweh compares his being able to remake Israel as he see fit to the way that the potter is able to remake a lump of clay as he sees fit. (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-simile]])

# tear it down, or destroy it

These two expressions basically mean the same thing. In the first expression, Yahweh speaks of destroying a kingdom as if the kingdom were a plant or a building that he tears down. (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-doublet]] and [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metaphor]])

# relent from

"withhold" or "not bring"

# translationWords

* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/wordofgod]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/house]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/names/kingdomofisrael]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/hand]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/proclaim]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/nation]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/kingdom]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/castout]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/turn]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/evil]]