# See

This tells the reader to pay special attention to what follows. AT: "Look" or "Listen" or "Pay attention to what I am about to tell you"

# I am about to form disaster against you. I am about to devise a plan against you

Yahweh speaks of planning disaster as if disaster were an object that he forms, like the potter would form clay. The second sentence repeats the same idea as the first using different words. AT: "I am about to devise a plan to bring disaster against you" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metaphor]] and [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-parallelism]])

# devise a plan

"make a plan"

# his wicked way

Yahweh speaks of a person's lifestyle as if it were a "way" or path along which the person walks. AT: "his wicked way of living" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metaphor]])

# so your ways and your practices will bring good to you

The words "ways" and "practices" both refer to a person's actions and general lifestyle. AT: "so your actions will result in good happening to you" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-doublet]])

# But they will say

The word "they" refers to the inhabitants of Judah and Jerusalem.

# This is no use

Possible meanings for this idiom are 1) the people do not care about what Jeremiah will say to them. AT: "We do not care what you say" or 2) The people do not think that anything good will come of what Jeremiah tells them to do. AT: "What you are saying will not work" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-idiom]])

# what his evil, stubborn heart desires

Here the word "heart" represents the person's mind or will. AT: "what his evil, stubborn mind desires" or "whatever evil things that we stubbornly want to do" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metonymy]])

# translationWords

* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/kingdomofjudah]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/jerusalem]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/yahweh]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/repent]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/evil]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/good]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/heart]]