# Ask the nations, who has ever heard of such a thing as this?

Here the word "nations" represents the people in the nations. Yahweh asks this question to scold the people of Judah. AT: "Ask the nations if any of them have ever heard of such a thing as this." or "Nowhere on earth has anyone ever heard of such a thing like this." (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-rquestion]])

# The virgin Israel has committed a horrible act

It was common to refer to nations as if they were women. Yahweh speaks of Israel being pure and faithful towards him as if she were a virgin and of Israel being unfaithful to him as if she had "committed a horrible act." AT: "Israel, who is like a virgin, has done something horrible" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-personification]] and [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metaphor]])

# Does the snow in Lebanon ever leave the rocky hills on its sides?

Yahweh asks this rhetorical question to emphasize that the snow on the mountains never melts. AT: "The snow in Lebanon never leaves the rocky hills on its sides." (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-rquestion]])

# the rocky hills on its sides

"the sides of the rocky hills"

# Are the mountain streams coming from far away ever destroyed, those cold streams?

Yahweh asks this rhetorical question to emphasize that the mountain streams never cease to flow. He speaks of the streams drying up as if they were destroyed. AT: "Those cold mountain streams that come from far away never cease to flow." (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-rquestion]] and [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metaphor]])