# been made to stumble in their paths

Yahweh speaks of a person's lifestyle as if it were a path along which he walks, and of living unfaithfully to him as if the person stumbled along the path. This can be stated in active form. AT: "this caused them to stumble in their paths" or "it is like they stumbled while walking on a path" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metaphor]] and [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-activepassive]])

# they have left the ancient paths to walk lesser paths

Yahweh speaks of a person's lifestyle as if it were a path along which he walks. Here, "the ancient paths" represents the way that Yahweh had told their ancestors to live and "lesser paths" represents living unfaithfully to Yahweh. (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metaphor]])

# will become a horror

The word "horror" may be translated with a verbal phrase. AT: "will become something that horrifies people" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-abstractnouns]])

# an object of everlasting hissing

The word "hissing" refers to a sound that shows strong disapproval and can be translated with a verbal phrase. AT: "an object at which people will always hiss"

# passes by her

Here the word "her" refers to "Their land."

# I will scatter them before their enemies like an eastern wind

Yahweh speaks of causing the people to flee before their enemies as if he were an eastern wind that scatters dust and debris. AT: "I will be like an eastern wind and scatter them before their enemies" or "I will scatter them before their enemies like an eastern wind scatters dust and debris" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metaphor]])

# will scatter them

Here the word "them" refers to "my people."

# I will show them my back, and not my face

"I will turn my back toward them, and not my face." Turning one's back towards someone is a symbolic action that represents rejection and turning one's face towards someone is a symbolic action that represents favor. AT: "I will reject them and not act favorably towards them" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/translate-symaction]])