# let us make plots against Jeremiah

"let us make plans to harm Jeremiah"

# the law will never perish from the priests, or advice from the wise men, or words from the prophets

The words "will never perish" can be supplied to each of these phrases. This can also be expressed in positive terms. AT: "the law will never perish from the priests, and advice will never perish from the wise men, and words will never perish from the prophets" or "the priests will always have the law, the wise men will always give advice, and the prophets will always speak" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-ellipsis]])

# words from the prophets

Here "words" represents messages that the prophets speak from Yahweh. AT: "words of Yahweh from the prophets" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-explicit]])

# attack him with our words

The people speak of speaking harmful words against Jeremiah as if their words were weapons with which they attack him. AT: "say things that will harm him" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metaphor]])

# Pay attention to me

Here Jeremiah begins speaking to Yahweh.

# Will disaster from them really be my reward for being good to them?

Jeremiah asks this question to emphasize that good actions should not be repaid with bad things. AT: "Disaster from them should not be my reward for being good to them." (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-rquestion]])

# they have dug a pit for me

Jeremiah speaks of his enemies planning to kill him as if they had dug a pit in which to trap him. (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metaphor]])

# to cause your fury to turn away from them

Here the word "fury" represents the punishment that Yahweh intended to inflict upon them. Jeremiah speaks of Yahweh not punishing them as if he were turning his fury away from them. AT: "so that you would not punish them in your anger" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metonymy]] and [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metaphor]])

# translationWords

* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/jeremiah]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/lawofmoses]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/perish]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/priest]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/counselor]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/wise]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/word]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/prophet]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/proclaim]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/reward]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/pit]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/wrath]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/turn]]