# hand over their children to famine

The idiom "hand over" means to place a person in the power of another person. Jeremiah speaks of "famine" as if it were a person who could have power over others. AT: "cause their children to die from famine" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-idiom]] and [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-personification]])

# give them to the hands of those who use the sword

Here the word "hands" represents power. AT: "cause those who use the sword to have power over them" or "cause them to die in battle" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metonymy]])

# let their women become bereaved and widows

"let the children and husbands of their women die." The word "bereaved" refers to a woman whose children have all died.

# their men be killed

The verb may be supplied from the previous phrase. This can be stated in active form. AT: "let people kill their men" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-ellipsis]] and [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-activepassive]])

# their young men killed by the sword in battle

The verb may be supplied from the previous phrase. This can be stated in active form. AT: "let people kill their young men with swords in battle" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-ellipsis]] and [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-activepassive]])

# Let a distressed shout be heard

The phrase "a distressed shout" can be translated with a verbal phrase. This can be stated in active form. AT: "Let people hear a distressed shout" or "Let people hear others shout in distress" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-activepassive]])

# For they have dug a pit to capture me and have hidden traps for my feet

These two phrases share similar meanings. Jeremiah speaks of his enemies planning to kill him as if they had dug a pit for him to fall into and set traps in which to capture him. (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-parallelism]] and [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metaphor]])

# they have dug a pit

See how you translated this in [Jeremiah 18:20](./18.md).

# have hidden traps for my feet

Here the word "feet" represents Jeremiah. AT: "have hidden traps for me" or "have hidden traps for me to step on" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-synecdoche]])

# Do not wipe their sins away from you

Jeremiah speaks of Yahweh forgiving his enemies' sins as if someone had written their sins down and Yahweh would erase them. This phrase means the same thing as the previous phrase. AT: "Do not pardon their sins" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-parallelism]])

# let them be overthrown before you

This can be stated in active form. AT: "let people overthrow them in your presence" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-activepassive]])

# in the time of your wrath

The word "wrath" can be translated with a verb. AT: "when you are still angry with them" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-abstractnouns]])