# If others exercised ... you, do we not have even more?

Paul asks a question so that the Corinthians will think of what he is saying without him having to say it. Here "we" refers to Paul and Barnabas. AT: "Others exercised ... you, so you know without me telling you that we have this right even more." (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-exclusive]] and [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-rquestion]])

# If others exercised this right

Paul and the Corinthians both know that others exercised the right. "Since others exercised this right"

# others

other workers of the gospel

# this right

the right to have the believers at Corinth provide for the living expenses of those who told them the good news

# be a hindrance to

"be a burden to" or "stop the spread of"

# Do you not know that those who serve in the temple get their food from the temple?

Paul is reminding the Corinthians of what they know so he can add new information. AT: "I want to remind you that those who serve in the temple get their food from the temple." (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-rquestion]])

# Do you not know that those who serve at the altar share in what is offered on the altar?

Paul is reminding the Corinthians of what they know so he can add new information. AT: "I want to remind you that those who serve at the altar get some of the foods and meat that people offer on the altar." (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-rquestion]])

# get their living from the gospel

The words "the gospel" here are a metonym for 1) the people to whom they tell the gospel, "receive their food and other things they need from those to whom they teach the good news," or 2) the result of working to tell the gospel, "receive their food and other things they need because they work to tell the good news." (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metonymy]])

# translationWords

* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/endure]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/goodnews]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/christ]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/know]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/serve]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/temple]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/altar]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/command]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/proclaim]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/life]]