# Connecting Statement:

Paul explains that he uses the liberty he has in Christ to discipline himself.

# Do you not know that in a race all the runners run the race, but that only one receives the prize?

Paul is reminding the Corinthians of what they know so he can add new information. AT: "Let me remind you that although all runners run the race, only one runner receives the prize." (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-rquestion]])

# run the race

Paul compares living the Christian life and working for God to running a race and being an athlete. As in a race, the Christian life and work require strict discipline on the part of the runner, and, as in a race, the Christian has a specific goal. (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metaphor]])

# run to win the prize

Paul is speaking of the reward God will give his faithful people as if it were a prize given for an athletic contest. (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metaphor]])

# a wreath that is perishable ... one that is imperishable

A wreath is a bunch of leaves twisted together. Wreaths were given as prizes to athletes who won games and races. Paul speaks of eternal life as if it were a wreath that would never dry up. (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metaphor]])

# I do not run without purpose or box by beating the air

Here "running" and "boxing" are both metaphors for living the Christian life and serving God. This can be stated in positive form. AT: "I know very well why I am running, and I know what I am doing when I box" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metaphor]] and [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-doublenegatives]])

# I myself may not be disqualified

This passive sentence can be rephrased to an active form. The judge of a race or competition is a metaphor for God. AT: "the judge will not disqualify me" or "God will not say that I have failed to obey the rules" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-activepassive]] and [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metaphor]])