# General Information:

Daniel continues talking to the king.

# Now we will tell the king

Here "we" refers only to Daniel. He may have used to plural form in humility to avoid taking credit for knowing the meaning of the dream that God had revealed to him. (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-pronouns]])

# king of the kings

"the most important king" or "a king who rules over other kings"

# the power, the strength

These words mean basically the same thing. (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-doublet]])

# He has given into your hand the place

Here "hand" refers to control. AT: "He has given you control over the place" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metonymy]])

# the place where the human beings live

The place is used to represent the people who live there. AT: "the people of the land" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metonymy]])

# He has given over the animals ... into your hand

Here "hand" refers to control. AT: "He has given you control over the animals of the fields and the birds of the heavens" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metonymy]])

# birds of the heavens

Here "heavens" is used in the sense of "skies."

# You are the statue's head of gold

In the king's dream the statue's head represents the king. AT: "The golden head symbolizes you" or "The golden head is a symbol of you and your power" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/writing-symlanguage]])

# translationWords

* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/dream]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/king]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/god]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/heaven]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/kingdom]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/power]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/honor]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/hand]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/life]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/ruler]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/head]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/gold]]