# So the Philistines were subdued

The writer has just finished telling how the Philistines were subdued. If your language has a way of marking the end of a description, you could use it here.

# the Philistines were subdued

This can be translated in active form. AT: "Yahweh subdued the Philistines" or "Yahweh kept the Philistines from causing harm" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-activepassive]])

# they did not enter the border of Israel

The Philistines did not enter Israel's border to attack them.

# The hand of Yahweh was against the Philistines

The word "hand" is a metonym for power. AT: "Yahweh used his power against the Philistines" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metonymy]])

# The towns ... from Israel were restored to Israel

This can be stated in active form. Possible meanings are 1) Here "Israel" refers to the "land" of Israel. "Yahweh restored to the land of Israel the towns ... from Israel" or 2) "Israel" is a metonym for the people who live there. AT: "the people of Israel were able to reclaim the towns ... from Israel" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-activepassive]] and [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metonymy]])

# translationWords

* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/philistines]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/israel]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/hand]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/yahweh]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/samuel]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/restore]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/ekron]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/gath]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/peace]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/amorite]]