# General Information:

Moses continues speaking to the people of Israel.

# chooses to put his name

Here "name" refers to God himself. Yahweh would choose a place where he will live and the people will come to worship him. AT: "chooses to dwell" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metonymy]])

# within your gates

Here "gates" represents the whole city." AT: "inside your city" or "within your community" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-synecdoche]])

# as your soul desires

Here "soul" refers to the whole person. AT: "as you desire" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-synecdoche]])

# Like the gazelle and the deer are eaten

This can be translated in active form. AT: "Just like you eat the gazelle and the deer" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-activepassive]])

# gazelle and the deer

These are wild animals with long thin legs that can run quickly. See how you translated these in [Deuteronomy 12:15](./15.md).

# the unclean ... persons

A person who is not acceptable for God's purposes is spoken of as if the person were physically unclean. (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metaphor]])

# the clean persons

A person who is acceptable for God's purposes is spoken of as if the person were physically clean. (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metaphor]])

# translationWords

* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/name]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/flock]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/command]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/gate]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/clean]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/clean]]