# cuts off the nations

Yahweh destroying the people groups in Canaan is spoken of as if he were cutting them off, as one would cut a piece of cloth or cut a branch from a tree. (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metaphor]])

# the nations

Here "nations" represents the people living in Canaan. (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metonymy]])

# when you go in to dispossess them, and you dispossess them

"when you take everything from them"

# pay attention to yourself

"be careful"

# that you are not trapped into following them ... trapped into investigating their gods, into asking

A person learning about and worshiping other gods is spoken of as if they are caught in a hunter's trap. This can be stated in active form. AT: "that you do not act like them ... that you do try to learn about their gods, asking" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metaphor]] and [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-activepassive]])

# not trapped into following them

The Israelites worshiping idols as the people groups of Canaan worship idols is spoken of as if the Israelites were following behind the other people groups. (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metaphor]])

# after they are destroyed from before you

This can be stated in active form. AT: "after Yahweh destroys them before you" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-activepassive]])

# into asking, 'How do these nations worship their gods? I will do the same.'

This is a quotation within a quotation. A direct quotation can be stated as an indirect quotation. AT: "into asking about how those people groups worship their gods so that you can do the same." (See:[[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-quotesinquotes]] and [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-quotations]])

# translationWords

* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/yahweh]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/god]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/cutoff]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/nation]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/falsegod]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/worship]]