# Extend your covenant faithfulness fully to those who know you

The writer speaks of Yahweh continuing to act faithfully towards the people as if Yahweh were to extend his covenant faithfulness or make it longer. The abstract noun "faithfulness" can be translated with an adverb. AT: "Continue to act faithfully to those who know you" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metaphor]] and [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-abstractnouns]])

# your defense to the upright of heart

The abstract noun "defense" can be stated as a verb. "Continue" is implied from the previous phrase. AT: "Continue to protect the upright of heart" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-abstractnouns]] and [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-ellipsis]])

# the upright of heart

Here "heart" refers to the people. AT: "the upright" or "people who act righteously" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-synecdoche]])

# the foot of the arrogant man ... the hand of the wicked

Here "foot" and "hand" refer to the evil people. These are not specific men. This refers to evil people in general. AT: "arrogant people ... wicked people" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-synecdoche]] and [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-genericnoun]])

# drive me away

"send me away" or "make me leave my place"

# evildoers have fallen; they are knocked down and are not able to get up

All three phrases describe the evildoers as defeated. (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metaphor]])

# they are knocked down

This can be stated in active form. AT: "you have knocked them down" or "you have destroyed them" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-activepassive]])

# are not able to get up

"cannot get up"

# translationWords

* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/covenantfaith]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/know]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/upright]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/heart]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/arrogant]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/hand]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/evil]]