# My tears have been my food

The author refers to his tears as if they are food that he eats. This means that he is so sad that he cannot eat. AT: "My tears are like my food and I eat nothing else" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metaphor]] and [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-explicit]])

# day and night

This phrase refers to the entire day by referring to both its beginning and end. AT: "all day long" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-merism]])

# my enemies are always saying to me

This is an exaggeration. His enemies are not saying this constantly; they are saying it often. (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-hyperbole]])

# Where is your God?

The author's enemies use this question to mock him and to express that they do not see his God helping him. AT: "Your God is not here to help you" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-rquestion]])

# call to mind

This is an idiom that means to remember or think about something. AT: "remember" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-idiom]])

# I pour out my soul

Here the word "soul" refers to the emotions. The author speaks of his soul as if it is a liquid that he pours out. The phrase means that he is expressing his emotional grief. AT: "I express my sorrow" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metonymy]] and [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metaphor]])

# the throng

"the crowd of people"

# joy and praise

This phrase uses two different words to express one idea. AT: "joyful praise" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-hendiadys]])

# translationWords

* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/adversary]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/call]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/mind]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/soul]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/houseofgod]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/voice]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/joy]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/praise]]