# threw their cloaks on it so Jesus could ride it

"laid their cloaks on its back so Jesus could ride it." It is easier to ride a colt or a horse when there is a blanket or something similar on its back. In this case, the disciples threw their cloaks on it.

# cloaks

"coats" or "robes"

# Many people spread their garments on the road

It was a tradition to lay garments on the road in front of important people to honor them. This can be made explicit. AT: "Many people spread their garments on the road to honor him" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-explicit]])

# others spread branches they had cut from the fields

It was a tradition to lay palm branches on the road in front of an important people to honor them. AT: "others spread branches on the road that they had cut from the fields, also to honor him" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-explicit]])

# who followed

"who followed him"

# Hosanna

This word means "save us," but people also shouted it joyfully when they wanted to praise God. You can translate it according to how it was used, or you can write "Hosanna" using your language's way of spelling that word. AT: "Praise God" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/translate-transliterate]])

# Blessed is the one

This is referring to Jesus. This can be stated clearly. AT: "Blessed are you, the one" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-explicit]])

# in the name of the Lord

This is a metonym for the Lord's authority. AT: "the authority of the Lord" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metonymy]])

# Blessed is the coming kingdom of our father David

"Blessed is our father David's coming kingdom." This refers to Jesus coming and ruling as king. The word "blessed" can be translated as an active verb. AT: "Blessed be the coming of your kingdom" or "May God bless you as you rule your coming kingdom" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-explicit]] and [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-activepassive]])

# Blessed is

"May God bless"

# of our father David

Here David's descendant who will rule is referred to as David himself. AT: "of the greatest descendant of our father David" or "that David's greatest descendant will rule" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metonymy]])

# Hosanna in the highest

Possible meanings are 1) "Praise God who is in heaven" or 2) "Let those who are in heaven shout 'Hosanna'."

# the highest

Here heaven is spoken of as "the highest." AT: "the highest heaven" or "heaven" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metaphor]])

# translationWords

* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/disciple]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/jesus]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/bless]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/lordgod]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/name]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/kingdom]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/names/david]]