# If we say, 'From heaven,'

This refers to the source of the baptism of John. AT: "If we say, 'It was from heaven,'" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-ellipsis]])

# From heaven

Here "heaven" refers to God. See how you translated this in [Mark 11:30](./29.md). AT: "From God" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metonymy]])

# not believe him

The word "him" refers to John the Baptist.

# But if we say, 'From men,'

This refers to the source of the baptism of John. AT: "But if we say, 'It was from men,'" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-ellipsis]])

# From men

"From people"

# But if we say, 'From men,' ... .

The religious leaders imply that they will suffer from the people if they give this answer. AT: "But if we say, 'From men,' that would not be good." or "But we do not want to say that it was from men." (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-explicit]] and [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-ellipsis]])

# They were afraid of the people

The author, Mark, explains why the religious leaders did not want to say that John's baptism was from men. This can be stated clearly. "They said this to each other because they were afraid of the people" or "They did not want to say that John's baptism was from men because they were afraid of the people" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-explicit]])

# We do not know

This refers to the baptism of John. This understood information may be supplied. AT: "We do not know where the baptism of John came from" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-ellipsis]])