# Do not let them escape doing iniquity

What they might escape can be sued clearly. AT: "Do not let them escape your punishment for their iniquity" or "Do not let them escape when you punish them for the wicked things they do" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-explicit]])

# Bring down the peoples

Defeating the enemies is spoken of as bringing them down. AT: "Defeat the peoples" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metaphor]])

# You number my wanderings

God's concern for the psalmist is spoken of as if God counted each time that the psalmist has walked in sadness and with no place to go for comfort. AT: "You care about all the times that I have been wandering alone" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metaphor]])

# put my tears into your bottle

God's concern for the psalmist is spoken of as if God saved the psalmist's tears in a bottle. The tears represent crying. AT: "you know how much I have cried and you care about me" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metaphor]] and [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metonymy]])

# are they not in your book?

God's concern for the psalmist is spoken of as if he wrote the number of the psalmist's tears in his book. This question is used to remind God about how greatly he cares for the psalmist. AT: "you have written about them in your book!" or "you remember my cries!" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metaphor]]and [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-rquestion]])

# translationWords

* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/iniquity]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/peoplegroup]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/angry]]