# What have I done? What is my iniquity? What is my sin before your father, that he seeks to take my life?

These three questions mean basically the same thing. David uses them to emphasize that he has done nothing wrong to Saul. This rhetorical question can be translated as a statement. AT: "I have done nothing wrong. I have not committed any iniquity. I have not sinned against your father. He has no reason to take my life." (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-parallelism]] and [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-rquestion]])

# that he seeks to take my life?

Here "take my life" is an idiom for "kill me." (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-idiom]])

# Far from it

Here "far from it" is an idiom that refers to that it is not true. AT: "This is certainly not true" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-idiom]])

# nothing either great or small

The words "great or small" include everything in between. AT: "nothing at all" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-merism]])

# Why should my father hide this thing from me?

Jonathan uses this question to emphasize that Saul would have told him if he planned to kill David. This rhetorical question can be translated as a statement. AT: "My father has no reason to hide this thing from me!" or "If this thing were true, my father would certainly let me know!" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-rquestion]])

# It is not so

"It is not true"

# translationWords

* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/david]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/ramah]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/jonathan]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/iniquity]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/sin]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/seek]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/life]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/death]]