# Saul's anger burned against Jonathan

Here "anger burned" is a metonymy that refers to becoming very angry. AT: "Saul became very angry with Jonathan" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metonymy]])

# You son of a perverse, rebellious woman!

This is an idiom. Saul uses this phrase as a harsh rebuke to Jonathan and his concern for David. AT: "You stupid son of a prostitute" or "You stupid traitor" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-idiom]])

# Do I not know that you have chosen the son of Jesse ... mother's nakedness?

Saul uses this question to emphasize that he knows that Jonathan and David are friends. This rhetorical question can be translated as a statement. AT: "I know that you have chosen the son of Jesse ... mother's nakedness." (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-rquestion]])

# to the shame of your mother's nakedness

Here "mother's nakedness" is an idiom that refers to the mother who gave birth to you. AT: "to the shame of your mother who gave birth to you" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-idiom]])

# neither you nor your kingdom will be established

This can be stated in active form. AT: "you will not become king and will not establish your kingdom" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-activepassive]])

# translationWords

* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/angry]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/names/jonathan]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/perverse]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/rebel]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/shame]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/life]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/earth]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/kingdom]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/death]]