# General Information:

This continues the king of Assyria's message to Hezekiah by speaking the message to Hezekiah's men. (See: [Isaiah 36:4-5](./04.md))

# How could you resist even one captain ... servants?

The chief commander continues to ridicule Hezekiah and his army. When he says "you," referring to Hezekiah, he is actually referring to Hezekiah's army. This question may be written as a statement. AT: "Your army could not even defeat one captain ... servants." (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-rquestion]] and [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metonymy]])

# Now then, have I traveled up here without Yahweh to fight against this land and destroy it?

The chief commander uses another question to ridicule Hezekiah and the people of Judah. This question may be written as a statement. AT: "I came here with Yahweh's command to destroy Jerusalem." (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-rquestion]])

# without Yahweh

Here "Yahweh" refers to Yahweh's orders. AT: "without Yahweh's command" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metonymy]])

# against this land and destroy it ... Attack this land and destroy it

This means to fight against the people and cause destruction in the place where they live. The land referred to here is Jerusalem. AT: "against this people and destroy their land ... Attack these people and destroy their land" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metonymy]])

# translationWords

* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/servant]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/trust]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/egypt]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/chariot]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/yahweh]]