# General Information:

The chief commander continues speaking the king of Assyria's message to the people of Judah. (See: [Isaiah 36:16](./16.md))

# Has any of the gods of the peoples rescued them from ... Assyria?

The chief commander uses this question to ridicule the people of Judah. This question may be written as a statement. AT: "None of the gods of the peoples rescued them from ... Assyria." (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-rquestion]])

# the hand of the king

The king's control is referred to as his "hand." AT: "the control of the king" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metonymy]])

# Where are the gods of Hamath and Arpad? Where are the gods of Sepharvaim? Have they rescued Samaria from my power?

The chief commander uses these questions to ridicule the people of Judah. These questions may be combined and written as a statement. AT: "The gods of Hamath, Arpad, Sepharvaim, and Samaria did not rescue their people from my power." (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-rquestion]])

# Hamath ... Arpad

Translate the names of these cities the same as you did in [Isaiah 10:09](../10/07.md). (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/translate-names]])

# Sepharvaim

This is the name of a city. (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/translate-names]])

# is there any god who has rescued ... as if Yahweh could save Jerusalem from my power?

The chief commander uses this question to ridicule the people of Judah. This question may be written as a statement. AT: "there is no god who has rescued ... and Yahweh will not save you in Jerusalem from my power." (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-rquestion]])

# his land

This refers to the people who live in the land. AT: "his people" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metonymy]])