# the most holy place

Possible meanings are 1) the inner room of the tabernacle on earth or 2) God's presence in heaven.

# the first tabernacle was still standing

Possible meanings are 1) "the outer room of the tabernacle was still standing" or 2) "the earthly tabernacle and the sacrificial system still existed." (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metonymy]])

# This was an illustration

"This was a picture" or "This was a symbol"

# for the present time

"for now"

# that are now being offered

This can be stated in active form. AT: "that the priests now offer" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-activepassive]])

# are not able to perfect the worshiper's conscience

The writer speaks of a person's conscience as if it were an object that could be made better and better until it was without fault. A person's conscience is his knowledge of right and wrong. It is also his awareness of whether or not he has done wrong. If he knows he has done wrong, we say that he feels guilty. AT: "are not able to make the worshiper free from guilt" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metaphor]])

# the worshiper's conscience

The writer appears to refer to only one worshiper, but he means all those who came to worship God at the tabernacle. (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-genericnoun]])

# regulations for the flesh

Here "flesh" refers to the physical body. AT: "rules for the physical body" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metonymy]])

# These were all regulations for the flesh that were provided

This can be stated in active form. AT: "God provided all these regulations for the flesh" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-activepassive]])

# that were provided until the new order would be created

This can be stated in active form. AT: "that God provided until he created the new order" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-activepassive]])

# new order

"new covenant"

# translationWords

* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/holyspirit]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/holyplace]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/tabernacle]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/gift]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/sacrifice]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/perfect]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/conscience]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/flesh]]