# Connecting Statement:

Having described the service of the tabernacle under God's law, the writer makes clear that Christ's service under the new covenant is better because it is sealed with his blood. It is better also because Christ has entered the true "tabernacle," that is, God's own presence in heaven, instead of entering, as other high priests, into the earthly tabernacle, which was only an imperfect copy.

# good things

This does not refer to material things. It means the good things that God promised in his new covenant.

# the greater and more perfect tabernacle

This refers to the heavenly tent or tabernacle, which is more important and more perfect than the earthly tabernacle.

# that was not made by human hands

This can be stated in active form. AT: "that humans hands did not make" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-activepassive]])

# human hands

Here "hands" refers to the whole person. AT: "humans" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-synecdoche]])

# most holy place

God's presence in heaven is spoken of as if it were the most holy place, the innermost room in the tabernacle. (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metaphor]])

# translationWords

* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/christ]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/highpriest]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/perfect]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/tabernacle]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/hand]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/creation]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/blood]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/goat]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/cow]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/holyplace]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/eternity]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/redeem]]