# sprinkling of a heifer's ashes on those who have become unclean

The priest would drop small amounts of the ashes on the unclean people.

# for the cleansing of their flesh

Here "flesh" refers to the entire body. AT: "for the cleansing of their bodies" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metonymy]])

# how much more will the blood of Christ, who through the eternal Spirit offered himself without blemish to God, cleanse our conscience from dead works to serve the living God?

The author uses this question to emphasize that Christ's sacrifice was the most powerful. AT: "then certainly Christ's blood will cleanse our conscience even more from dead works to serve the living God! Because, through the eternal Spirit, he offered himself without blemish to God." (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-rquestion]])

# the blood of Christ

The "blood" of Christ stands for his death. (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metonymy]])

# cleanse our conscience

Here "conscience" refers to a person's feeling of guilt. Believers no longer have to feel guilty for the sins they have committed because Jesus sacrificed himself and has forgiven them. (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metonymy]])

# blemish

This is a small sin or moral fault spoken of here as if it were a small, unusual spot or defect on Christ's body. (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metaphor]])

# cleanse

Here "cleanse" stands for the action of relieving our consciences from guilt for the sins we have committed. (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metaphor]])

# dead works

Sinful deeds are spoken of as if they belonged to the world of the dead. (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metaphor]])

# For this reason

"As a result" or "Because of this"

# he is the mediator of a new covenant

This means Christ caused the new covenant between God and humans to exist.

# first covenant

See how you translated this in [Hebrews 8:7](../08/06.md).

# those who are called

This can be stated in active form. AT: "those whom God has chosen to be his children" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-activepassive]])

# inheritance

Receiving what God has promised believers is spoken of as if it were inheriting property and wealth from a family member. (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metaphor]])

# translationWords

* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/heifer]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/unclean]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/setapart]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/clean]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/flesh]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/blemish]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/conscience]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/works]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/serve]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/life]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/mediator]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/newcovenant]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/free]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/sin]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/call]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/promise]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/inherit]]