# he sprinkled

"Moses sprinkled"

# sprinkled

Sprinkling was a symbolic action done by the priests by which they applied the benefits of the covenant to people and to objects. See how you translated this in [Hebrews 9:19](./18.md). (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/translate-symaction]])

# all the containers used in the service

A container is an object that can hold things. Here it may refer to any kind of utensil or tool. AT: "all the utensils used in the the service"

# used in the service

This can be stated in active form. AT: "the priests used in their work" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-activepassive]])

# almost everything is cleansed with blood

Making something acceptable to God is spoken of as if it were cleansing that thing. This idea can be stated in active form. AT: "the priests use blood to cleanse almost everything" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metaphor]] and [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-activepassive]])

# blood

Here the animal "blood" is talking about the animal's death. (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metonymy]])

# Without the shedding of blood there is no forgiveness

Here "shedding of blood" refers to something dying as a sacrifice to God. This double negative can mean that all forgiveness comes through the shedding of blood. AT: "Forgiveness only comes when something dies as a sacrifice" or "God only forgives when something dies as a sacrifice" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metonymy]] and [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-doublenegatives]])

# forgiveness

You can state explicitly the implied meaning. AT: "forgiveness of the sins of the people" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-explicit]])