# In the tenth year

It can be stated clearly that this was the tenth year of Jehoiachin's exile. AT: "In the tenth year of the exile of King Jehoiachin" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/translate-ordinal]] and [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-explicit]])

# in the tenth month on the twelfth day of the month

"on the twelfth day of the tenth month." This is the tenth month of the Hebrew calendar. The twelfth day is near the beginning of January on Western calendars. (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/translate-hebrewmonths]] and [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/translate-ordinal]])

# the word of Yahweh came

This is an idiom that is used to introduce something that God told his prophets or his people. See how you translated this in [Ezekiel 3:16](../03/16.md). AT: "Yahweh spoke this message" or "Yahweh spoke these words" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-idiom]])

# Son of man

"Son of a human being" or "Son of humanity." God calls Ezekiel this to emphasize that Ezekiel is only a human being. God is eternal and powerful, but humans are not. See how you translated this in [Ezekiel 2:1](../02/01.md). AT: "Mortal person" or "Human"

# set your face against Pharaoh

This is a command to stare at Pharaoh as a symbol of punishing him and his people. Pharaoh was far away, so Ezekiel could not see him, but staring in his direction would be a symbol of harming him and his people. See how you translated a similar phrase in [Ezekiel 6:2](../06/01.md). AT: "turn toward Pharaoh and stare" or "stare toward Pharaoh so that he and his people will be harmed" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/translate-symaction]])

# prophesy against him and against all of Egypt

"tell the terrible things that will happen to him and everyone in Egypt"

# the great sea monster

"the huge creature that lives in the water." Yahweh calls Pharaoh a monster that lives in the water. The monster is probably a crocodile. (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/writing-symlanguage]])