# General Information:

Yahweh continues giving Ezekiel his message to Pharaoh.

# know that I am Yahweh

When Yahweh says that people will know that he is Yahweh, he is implying that they will know that he is the one true God who has supreme authority and power. See how you translated this in [Ezekiel 6:7](../06/06.md). AT: "understand that I am Yahweh, the one true God" or "realize that I, Yahweh, have supreme power and authority" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-explicit]])

# they have been a reed stalk

The word "they" refers to the inhabitants of Egypt. A reed stalk is unreliable because it is easily broken. Yahweh speaks of them as a reed stalk because the people of Israel relied on the Egyptians to help them in war, but the Egyptians did not help them. AT: "they have been as unreliable as a reed stalk" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metaphor]])

# reed

a plant that grows near water and looks like very large grass

# stalk

the part of a reed that is long and like a thick stick. People can use them like sticks, but the stalks of reeds are not as strong as wood and can break suddenly.

# When they took hold of you in their hand

God speaks of Israel relying on Egypt as if they were taking hold of a reed stalk in order to use it as a crutch. AT: "When they relied on you" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metaphor]])

# When they took hold of you

The word "they" refers to the Israelites and the word "you" refers to Pharaoh or Pharaoh and Egypt.

# you caused their legs to be unsteady

Because Egypt did not help the Israelites, the Israelites could not defend themselves against their enemy, the Babylonians. God speaks of the Israelites being unable to defend themselves as if their legs were unsteady. AT: "you caused them to be like people whose legs are unsteady" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metaphor]])