# General Information:

Yahweh continues giving Ezekiel his message to Pharaoh.

# Behold!

"Look!" or "Listen!" This word adds emphasis to what is said next. This is the Lord's message to Pharaoh. AT: "Pay attention to what I am about to tell you!"

# I will bring a sword against you

Here "sword" is a metonym for battle, and "bring a sword against you" is a metaphor for causing an enemy army to come fight against Egypt. AT: "I will cause your enemies to come fight against you" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metonymy]])

# a sword against you

The word "you" refers to the nation of Egypt. (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-you]])

# I will cut off both man and beast from you

Here "cut off man and beast" is a metaphor for destroying the people and animals. God would do this by causing the enemy army to do it. (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metaphor]])

# I am against you and against your river

The word "you" refers to Pharaoh. God speaks to Pharaoh as if Pharaoh were a monster in the river.

# I will give the land of Egypt over to desolation and waste

"I will put Egypt into the power of desolation and waste." Desolation and waste are spoken of as if they were people who could be given power over Egypt. AT: "I will cause Egypt to become a desolate waste" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-personification]])

# you will become a wasteland

Here "you" refers to Pharaoh and represents Egypt, the country he rules over. AT: "your country will become a wasteland" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metonymy]])

# from the Migdol to Syene and the borders of Cush

This refers to all of Egypt. Where these places are can be stated clearly. AT: "throughout all of Egypt, from Migdol in the north to Syene in the south and the borders of Cush further south" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-merism]] and [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-explicit]])

# Migdol

This is the name of a place in the far northern part of Egypt. (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/translate-names]])

# Syene

This the name of a town in southern Egypt. It is now called Aswan. (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/translate-names]])

# the borders of Cush

These borders of Cush were south of Syene. Some versions say Sudan or Ethiopia, the modern names of countries south of Egypt. (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/translate-names]])