# they said ... They said

"they said to themselves ... They said to each other" or "they said to each other ... They said to each other." The second clause clearly refers to what the Philistines said to each other. The first clause probably refers to what they thought, though it could also refer to what they said to each other. If possible, avoid stating who was spoken to.

# A god has come

The Philistines worshiped many gods, so they probably believed that one of those gods, or one whom they did not worship, had come into the camp. Another possible meaning is that they were speaking the proper name of the God of Israel: "Yahweh has come." Because 4:8 speaks of "gods," some translations read, "Gods have come," that is, "It is gods who have come." (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-pronouns]])

# Who will protect us from the strength of these mighty gods?

This rhetorical question is an expression of deep fear. It can be written as a statement. AT: "There is no one who can protect us from these mighty gods." (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-rquestion]])

# these mighty gods ... the gods who attacked

Because the word "god" (or "God") in 4:7 is singular, many translations read "this mighty god ... the god who attacked," referring to any one of many possible gods, or "this mighty God ... the God who attacked," using the proper name of the God of Israel. (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-pronouns]])

# be men

This is an idiom. AT: "be strong and fight" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-idiom]])