# General Information:

Yahweh appears to be the speaker in verses 9-13.

# Shout with great joy, daughter of Zion! Shout with happiness, daughter of Jerusalem!

These two sentences mean the same thing and intensify the command to rejoice. Yahweh is speaking to the people of Jerusalem as if they were present, but they were not there. (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-parallelism]] and [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-apostrophe]])

# daughter of Zion ... daughter of Jerusalem

"Zion" is the same as "Jerusalem." The prophet speaks of the city as if it is a daughter. See how you translated "daughter of Zion" in [Zechariah 2:10](../02/10.md).

# Behold!

This alerts the reader to pay special attention to the surprising statement that follows. AT: "Pay attention!" or "Here is a surprising fact!"

# Your king is coming to you with righteousness and is rescuing you

"Your king is righteous and is coming to rescue you"

# on a donkey, on the colt of a donkey

These two phrases mean basically the same thing and refer to one animal. The second phrase clarifies that this is a young donkey. AT: "on a young donkey" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-doublet]])

# cut off the chariot from Ephraim

Here "cut off" is an idiom that means to destroy. AT: "destroy the chariots in Israel that are used for battle"

# the horse from Jerusalem

The references to "chariot" and "bow" means that this refers to horses used in battle. This can be made explicit. AT: "the warhorses in Jerusalem" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-explicit]])

# the bow will be cut off from battle

Here the bow represents all weapons used in warfare. AT: "all weapons of war will be destroyed" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-synecdoche]])

# for he will speak peace to the nations

Here the action of announcing peace represents the action of making peace. AT: "for your king will bring peace to the nations" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metonymy]])

# his dominion will be from sea to sea, and from the River to the ends of the earth!

The phrases "sea to sea" and "from the River to the ends of the earth" mean the same thing and can be combined. AT: "his kingdom will be over all the earth!" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-doublet]])

# the River

This probably refers to the Euphrates River.

# translationWords

* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/zion]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/jerusalem]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/righteous]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/humble]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/donkey]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/chariot]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/ephraim]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/horse]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/bowweapon]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/cutoff]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/peace]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/nation]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/dominion]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/earth]]