# General Information:

Yahweh appears to be the speaker in verses 9-13.

# As for you ... Zion

Here "you" is singular, and continues to refer to the city of Jerusalem, also called "Zion."

# the pit where there is no water

This dry pit represents the exile in Babylon. (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metaphor]])

# Return to the stronghold

Jerusalem is spoken of as a place of safety. AT: "Come back to your nation where you will be safe" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metaphor]])

# prisoners of hope

This expression refers to the Israelites in exile who were still trusting in God to rescue them. AT: "prisoners who still hope in Yahweh"

# return double to you

"return to you twice as much as was taken from you"

# I have bent Judah as my bow

The people of Judah are referred to as if they were a bow carried by God into battle. Here "Judah" refers to the people of that nation. AT: "I will cause the people of Judah to be like my bow" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metaphor]] and [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metonymy]])

# filled my quiver with Ephraim

Yahweh speaks of the people of Israel, the northern kingdom, as if they were arrows that he would shoot at his enemies. A quiver is a bag that holds a soldier's arrows. (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metaphor]])

# I have roused your sons, Zion, against your sons, Greece

God is speaking to the people of two different nations at the same time. (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metonymy]])

# translationWords

* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/blood]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/covenant]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/prison]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/pit]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/stronghold]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/hope]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/bowweapon]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/son]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/names/greece]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/sword]]