# General Information:

In verses 14-16, Zechariah describes how Yahweh will rescue Israel from their enemies.

# God will rescue them ... as the flock of his people

The people of Israel are spoken of as if they are God's sheep that he cares for and protects. (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-simile]])

# They are the jewels of a crown

The people of Israel are spoken of as if they were the expensive jewels in the crown of a king that show how glorious he is. AT: "They will be like beautiful stones in a crown" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metaphor]])

# How good and how beautiful they will be!

This is an exclamation, and not a question. AT: "They will be very good and beautiful!" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-exclamations]])

# The young men will flourish on grain and the virgins on sweet wine!

This sentence uses a parallel structure to express that everyone will have plenty to eat and drink. If your readers might think that only the men ate and only the women drank, you may want to adjust the wording. AT: "All of the people, both men and women, will have plenty of grain to eat and sweet wine to drink!" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-parallelism]])

# The young men ... the virgins

These two phrases are parallel and together represent the entire population of Israel. (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-parallelism]] and [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-synecdoche]])

# grain ... sweet wine

These two phrases are parallel and together represent all of the different kinds of the food and drink. (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-parallelism]] and [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-synecdoche]])