# Comfort, comfort

The word "comfort" is repeated for emphasis.

# says your God

Here "your" is plural and refers to those whom the prophet tells to comfort God's people. (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-you]])

# Speak tenderly to Jerusalem

The prophet speaks of Jerusalem as if it were a woman whom Yahweh has forgiven. As such, Jerusalem represents the people who live in that city. AT: Speak tenderly to the people of Jerusalem" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-personification]] and [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metonymy]])

# proclaim to her ... her warfare ... her iniquity ... she has received ... her sins

These pronouns refer to Jerusalem but may be changed if "the people of Jerusalem" is adopted as a translation. AT: "proclaim to them ... their warfare ... their iniquity ... they have received ... their sins" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-123person]])

# her warfare

Possible meanings are that the word "warfare" refers 1) to military battle or 2) to forced labor.

# her iniquity is pardoned

This can be stated in active form. AT: "Yahweh has pardoned her iniquity" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-activepassive]])

# from Yahweh's hand

Here the word "hand" represents Yahweh himself. AT: "from Yahweh" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-synecdoche]])

# translationWords

* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/comfort]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/peopleofgod]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/god]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/names/jerusalem]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/proclaim]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/iniquity]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/pardon]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/receive]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/yahweh]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/hand]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/sin]]