# A voice cries out

The word "voice" represents the person who cries out. AT: "Someone cries out" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-synecdoche]])

# In the wilderness prepare the way of Yahweh; make straight in the Arabah a highway for our God

These two lines are parallel and mean basically the same thing. The people preparing themselves for Yahweh's help is spoken of as if they were to prepare roads for Yahweh to travel upon. (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-parallelism]] and [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metaphor]])

# Arabah

See how you translated this word in [Isaiah 35:1](../35/01.md).

# Every valley will be lifted up, and every mountain and hill will be leveled

These phrases explain how the people are to prepare a highway for Yahweh. They can be stated in active form. AT: "Lift up every valley, and level every mountain and hill" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-activepassive]])

# Every valley will be lifted up

Making the valleys level with the rest of the ground is spoken of as if it were lifting up the valleys. AT: "Every valley will be filled in" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metaphor]])

# and the rugged land will be made level, and the rough places a plain

These phrases explain how the people are to prepare a highway for Yahweh. They can be stated in active form. AT: "make the rugged land level, and make the rough places into a plain" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-activepassive]] and [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-ellipsis]])

# the glory of Yahweh will be revealed

This can be stated in active form. AT: "Yahweh will reveal his glory" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-activepassive]])

# for the mouth of Yahweh has spoken it

The word "mouth" represents Yahweh himself. AT: "for Yahweh has spoken it" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-synecdoche]])