# Why do you say, Jacob, and declare, Israel ... vindication"?

The question emphasizes that they should not say what they say. AT: "'You should not say, O people of Israel ... vindication'." (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-rquestion]])

# Why do you say, Jacob, and declare, Israel

These two phrases both refer to the people of Israel. AT: "Why do you say, O people of Israel" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-doublet]])

# My way is hidden from Yahweh

Yahweh not knowing what happens to them is spoken of as if Yahweh could not see the road upon which they travel. AT: "Yahweh does not know what happens to me" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metaphor]])

# my God is not concerned about my vindication

Possible meanings are 1) "my God is not concerned about others treating me unjustly" or 2) "my God is not concerned about treating me justly."

# Have you not known? Have you not heard?

Isaiah uses these questions to emphasize that the people should know Yahweh's greatness. See how you translated these in [Isaiah 40:21](./21.md). AT: "You certainly know and have heard!" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-rquestion]])

# the ends of the earth

The places on the earth that are very far away are spoken of as if they were the places where the earth ends. This phrase also forms a merism and refers to everywhere in between the ends. AT "the farthest places of the earth" or "the entire earth" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metaphor]] and [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-merism]])

# translationWords

* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/jacob]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/declare]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/israel]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/yahweh]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/god]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/eternity]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/creation]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/earth]]