# Connecting Statement:

Job continues speaking to his friends.

# Why do wicked people continue to live, become old, and grow mighty in power?

Job uses this question to show that his friends are wrong to think evil men always suffer. AT: "Wicked people indeed continue to live, become old, and become wealthier." (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-rquestion]])

# Their descendants are established with them in their sight ... their offspring are established before their eyes

This two clauses mean the same thing and emphasize that this is true. (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-parallelism]])

# in their sight ... before their eyes

These phrases mean the same thing because "eyes" refers to sight. Wicked people get to watch their descendants grow strong and wealthy. (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-parallelism]] and [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metonymy]])

# Their houses

Here "houses" refers to the family members that lives in them. AT: "Their families" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metonymy]])

# rod of God

This refers to God's punishment. (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metonymy]])

# translationWords

* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/evil]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/life]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/mighty]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/power]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/descendant]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/offspring]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/house]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/fear]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/rod]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/god]]