# Connecting Statement:

Job continues speaking to his friends.

# See, is not their prosperity in their own hands?

Here "hands" refers to their power or control. Job uses this question to challenge his friends. AT: "Look, these wicked people claim that they make themselves prosper!" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metonymy]] and [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-rquestion]])

# How often is it ... their calamity comes upon them?

Job uses this question to emphasize that it seems to him that God does not punish the wicked very often. AT: "It is not often ... their calamity comes upon them." (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-rquestion]])

# the lamp of wicked people is put out

Job compares extinguishing the lamp to a person dying. This can be stated in active form. AT: "that God causes them to die suddenly" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metaphor]] and [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-activepassive]])

# the lamp of wicked people

Job compares the life of the wicked to a lamp that is burning. (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metaphor]])

# How often does it happen ... in his anger?

Job uses this second question to emphasize that it seems to him that God does not punish the wicked very often. AT: "It is not often ... in his anger." (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-rquestion]])

# How often is it ... the storm carries away?

Job uses this third question to emphasize that it seems to him that God does not punish the wicked very often. AT: "It is not often ... the storm carries away." (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-rquestion]])

# they become like stubble before the wind or like chaff that the storm carries away

The death of the wicked is spoken of as if they were worthless less chaff and stubble that blows away. This can be stated in active form. AT: "God takes them away like the wind blows away the chaff" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-simile]] and [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-activepassive]])