# Connecting Statement:

Job continues speaking to his friends.

# You say

These words are added by most versions in order to make it clear that the Job is quoting his friends in the next statement.

# God lays up one's guilt for his children to pay

Guilt is spoken of as something that can be stored for later use. Here "to pay" refers to punishment for sin. AT: "God keeps a record of a person's sins, then he punishes the person's children for his wicked deeds" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metaphor]])

# Let him pay it himself ... cut off?

Job now begins to state his own opinion. It may be helpful to state this explicitly. AT: "But I say, 'Let him pay it himself ... cut off?'" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-explicit]])

# Let his eyes see

Here "eyes" refers to the person. AT: "Let him see" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-synecdoche]])

# let him drink of the wrath of the Almighty

Here the wrath of God is spoken of as if it were a drink that a person can taste, and tasting is a metonym for experiencing the drink. Job wants the wicked person to experience God's punishment. (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metaphor]] and [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metonymy]])

# For what does he care about his family after him when the number of his months is cut off?

Job uses this question to show that punishing the evil man's children is not effective. This can be stated in active form. AT: "For the wicked man does not care what happens to his family after he has died!" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-rquestion]] and [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-activepassive]])

# the number of his months is cut off

This is a polite way of saying that he dies. (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-euphemism]])

# the number of his months

This refers to the length of his life.

# translationWords

* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/guilt]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/wrath]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/almighty]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/family]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/cutoff]]