# Then it happened

This phrase is used here to mark the beginning of a new part of the story. If your language has a way for doing this, you could consider using it here.

# in the twelfth month ... on the first of the month

This is the twelfth and final month of the Hebrew calendar. The first day is near the end of February. (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/translate-hebrewmonths]] and [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/translate-ordinal]])

# of the twelfth year

This refers to the twelfth year of the reign of King Jehoiachin. AT: "of the twelfth year of the exile of King Jehoiachin" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/translate-ordinal]] and [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-explicit]])

# the word of Yahweh came

This is an idiom that is used to introduce something that God told his prophets or his people. See how you translated this in [Ezekiel 3:16](../03/16.md). AT: "Yahweh spoke this message" or "Yahweh spoke these words" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-idiom]])

# Son of man

"Son of a human being" or "Son of humanity." God calls Ezekiel this to emphasize that Ezekiel is only a human being. God is eternal and powerful, but humans are not. See how you translated this in [Ezekiel 2:1](../02/01.md). AT: "Mortal person" or "Human"

# lift up

"sing"

# You are like a young lion ... like a monster in the seas

Possible meanings are 1) he thought he was like a lion, but he was really only a monster, or 2) he was like a lion and a monster.

# like a young lion among the nations

Egypt was stronger than other nations, like lions are stronger than other animals. (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-simile]])

# like a monster in the seas

Pharaoh was powerful, but he only caused trouble for others, like this monster in the water. (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-simile]])

# monster

A monster is an animal that is big and dangerous. This one might be a crocodile. See how you translated this word in [Ezekiel 29:3](../29/01.md).