# General Information:

Yahweh continues speaking to Ezekiel. He speaks of the people of Egypt as if they were a woman. (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metaphor]])

# Are you really more beautiful than anyone else? Go down and lie down with the uncircumcised.

This is a question and command that the prophet is to ask the Egyptians. AT: "Go down and lie down with the uncircumcised. Ask them all: 'Are you really more beautiful than anyone else?'" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-explicit]])

# Go down

It is implied that they must go down to Sheol. AT: "Go down to Sheol" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-explicit]])

# lie down

as in death. If your language has a word for dead people lying down that is different from the word for live people lying down to sleep, use it here.

# Are you really more beautiful than anyone else?

This question really makes a statement. AT: "You are not more beautiful than anyone else." (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-rquestion]])

# They

"Egypt and her people"

# who were killed by the sword

The word "sword" is a metonym for a soldier who kills people with a sword.This can be put into active form. AT: "whom enemy soldiers killed with swords" or "who died in battle" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-activepassive]] and [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metonymy]])

# The sword has been drawn!

The word "sword" here is a metonym for war that people fight with swords. This can be translated in active form. AT: "War has begun" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metonymy]] and [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-activepassive]])

# She has been given to the sword

This can be put in active form. AT: "I have given Egypt to the sword" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-activepassive]])

# they will seize her and her multitudes

"her enemies will seize Egypt and her people"

# about Egypt and her allies

"about the Egyptians and those who join them"

# translationWords

* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/circumcise]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/sword]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/names/egypt]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/adversary]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/hades]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/declare]]