# General Information:

Yahweh continues speaking to Ezekiel about nations in Sheol. Because what God is showing Ezekiel may be for future time, either the present tense or the future tense is suitable for these verses and the following verses.

# Assyria is there with all her assembly

The land of Assyria is represented as a woman. AT: "The people of Assyria and all its army are there in Sheol" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metaphor]])

# her assembly

"all her people together"

# all of them were killed by the sword

The word "sword" is a metonym for soldiers who use swords to kill people. This can be put in active form. AT: "Soldiers used swords to kill them all" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metonymy]] and [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-activepassive]])

# are set in the recesses of the pit

"The pit" refers to the grave; because the grave was thought to be the entrance to the world of the dead, the pit also represents that world. See how you translated this in [Ezekiel 32:18](./17.md). (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metonymy]])

# all of those who were killed, who fell by the sword

This can be put in active form. AT: "all those whom enemies killed in battle" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-activepassive]] and [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metonymy]])

# fell by the sword

The word "fell" here is a euphemism for "died." (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-euphemism]])

# those who brought terror on the land of the living

The abstract noun "terror" can be stated as "afraid." AT: "those who, when they were still alive, caused people to be extremely afraid" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-abstractnouns]])

# the land of the living

This represents the people who were alive. (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metonymy]])