# General Information:

Yahweh continues speaking to Ezekiel about nations in Sheol.

# Elam is there

Here "Elam" refers to the people of that country. AT: "The people of Elam are also there in Sheol" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metonymy]])

# her multitudes

Possible meanings are 1) her many people or 2) her army.

# Her graves surround her

See how you translated this in [Ezekiel 32:22](./22.md).

# all of them were killed

This can be put in active form. AT: "Her enemies killed them all" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-activepassive]])

# Those who fell by the sword

Translate "who fell by the sword" as in [Ezekiel 32:23](./22.md).

# by the sword

Here "the sword" is a metonym for soldiers who use swords to kill people. AT: "in battle" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metonymy]])

# who have gone down uncircumcised

"who were uncircumcised when they went down"

# to the lowest parts of the earth

"to places deep down in the ground" or "to the land deep down in the ground." See how you translated "in the lowest realms of the earth" in [Ezekiel 26:20](../26/19.md).

# who brought their terrors

The abstract noun "terrors" can be stated as "afraid." See how you translated "brought terror" in [Ezekiel 32:23](./22.md). AT: "those who, when they were still alive, caused people to be extremely afraid" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-abstractnouns]])

# the land of the living

This represents the people who were alive. See how you translated "the land of the living" in [Ezekiel 32:23](./22.md). (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metonymy]])

# who carry their own shame

Shame is spoken of as if it were an object that one could carry where he goes. AT: "who feel ashamed" or "who are now disgraced" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metaphor]])

# the pit

"The pit" refers to the grave; because the grave was thought to be the entrance to the world of the dead, the pit also represents that world. See how you translated this in [Ezekiel 32:23](./22.md). (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metonymy]])

# They set a bedroll for Elam and all her multitudes

Space being made in Sheol for the dead is spoken of as if the dead were given beds to lie on. AT: "They gave beds to Elam and all its people" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metaphor]])

# in the midst of the slain

"with all the other people who were killed"

# All of them are uncircumcised

The Israelites did not respect people who were not circumcised. (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-explicit]])

# pierced by the sword, because

The word "pierced" here is a metonym for "killed." This can be translated in active form. AT: "their enemies have killed them with swords because" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metonymy]])

# Elam is among all those who were killed

This is very similar to the first part of the verse. AT: "The dead people gave Elam a place to lie among themselves"