# General Information:

Yahweh continues telling Moses what the people must do.

# three-tenths of an ephah

"Three-tenths" means three parts out of ten equal parts. This can be written in modern measurements. AT: "six liters" or "three-tenths of an ephah (which is about six liters)" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/translate-fraction]] and [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/translate-bvolume]])

# two-tenths

The words "of an ephah" are missing and may be added. "Two-tenths" means two parts out of ten equal parts. This can be written in modern measurements. AT: "four and a half liters" or "two-tenths of an ephah (which is about 4.5 liters)" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-ellipsis]] and [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/translate-fraction]] and [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/translate-bvolume]])

# a tenth of an ephah

"A tenth" means one part out of ten equal parts. This can be written in modern measurements. AT: "2 liters" or "a tenth of an ephah (which is about 2 liters)" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/translate-fraction]] and [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/translate-bvolume]])

# mixed with oil

This can be stated in active form. AT: "which you have mixed with oil" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-activepassive]])

# made by fire

This can be stated in active form. AT: "that you burned on the altar" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-activepassive]])

# translationWords

* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/biblicaltimemonth]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/burntoffering]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/yahweh]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/cow]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/sheep]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/lamb]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/biblicaltimeyear]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/blemish]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/tenth]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/grainoffering]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/oil]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/sacrifice]]