# General Information:

Yahweh continues telling Moses what the people must do.

# the first month, on the fourteenth day of the month ... On the fifteenth day of this month

"During the first month, on day 14 of the month ... On day 15 day of this month." This refers to the first month of the Hebrew calendar. (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/translate-hebrewmonths]] and [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/translate-ordinal]])

# comes Yahweh's Passover

"you must celebrate Yahweh's Passover"

# a feast is to be held

This can be stated in active form. "you must have a feast" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-activepassive]])

# bread without yeast must be eaten

This can be stated in active form. "you must eat bread without yeast" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-activepassive]])

# On the first day

This refers to the first day of the feast. This can be stated clearly. AT: "On day 1 of the feast" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/translate-ordinal]] and [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/translate-explicit]])

# there must be a holy assembly to honor Yahweh

"you must gather together to worship and honor Yahweh." The phrase "a holy assembly" means the people gather together to worship Yahweh. Worshiping Yahweh is a holy event.

# translationWords

* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/biblicaltimeday]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/yahweh]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/passover]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/feast]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/bread]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/yeast]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/holy]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/assembly]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/honor]]