# General Information:

Yahweh continues telling Moses what the people must do.

# you must offer a sacrifice made by fire, a burnt offering

This can be stated in active form. AT: "you must burn an offering on the altar" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-activepassive]])

# three-tenths of an ephah

"Three-tenths" means three parts out of ten equal parts. This can be written in modern measurements. AT: "six liters" or "three-tenths of an ephah (which is about six liters)" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/translate-fraction]] and [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/translate-bvolume]])

# mixed with oil

This can be stated in active form. AT: "which you have mixed with oil" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-activepassive]])

# two-tenths

The words "of an ephah of fine flour" are missing and may be added. "Two-tenths" means two parts out of ten equal parts. This can be written in modern measurements. AT: "four and a half liters of fine flour" or "two-tenths of an ephah of fine flour (which is about 4.5 liters)" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-ellipsis]] and [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/translate-fraction]] and [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/translate-bvolume]])

# a tenth of an ephah

"A tenth" means one part out of ten equal parts. This can be written in modern measurements. AT: "2 liters" or "a tenth of an ephah (which is about 2 liters)" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/translate-fraction]] and [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/translate-bvolume]])

# to make atonement

The word "atonement" may be expressed as a verb. AT: "to atone" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-abstractnouns]])

# translationWords

* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/burntoffering]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/blemish]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/grainoffering]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/tenth]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/sinoffering]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/atonement]]