# General Information:

Yahweh continues telling Moses what the people must do.

# the day of the firstfruits

"the day of the firstfruits, that is the day." This refers to the day during the Festival of Weeks when they offer the grain offering to Yahweh.

# have a holy assembly to honor Yahweh

"gather together to worship and honor Yahweh." The phrase "a holy assembly" means the people gather together to worship Yahweh. Worshiping Yahweh is a holy event.

# mixed with oil

This can be stated in active form. AT: "which you have mixed with oil" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-activepassive]])

# three-tenths of an ephah

"Three tenths" means three parts out of ten equal parts. This can be written in modern measurements. AT: "six liters" or "three-tenths of an ephah (which is about six liters)" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/translate-fraction]] and [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/translate-bvolume]])

# three-tenths of an ephah

"Three tenths" means three parts out of ten equal parts. This can be written in modern measurements. AT: "six liters" or "three-tenths of an ephah (which is about six liters)" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/translate-fraction]] and [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/translate-bvolume]])

# two-tenths

The words "of an ephah of fine flour" are missing and may be added. "Two-tenths" means two parts out of ten equal parts. This can be written in modern measurements. AT: "four and a half liters of fine flour" or "two-tenths of an ephah of fine flour (which is about 4.5 liters)" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-ellipsis]] and [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/translate-fraction]] and [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/translate-bvolume]])