# General Information:

The writer has finished giving background information and is now again telling what Moses said to the Israelites.

# Now rise up

Yahweh is telling Moses what the people should do. "Now get up" or "Now go."

# go on your journey

"continue your journey"

# Valley of the Arnon

This is the name of the valley of the Arnon River. It creates the border between Moab and the Amorites. (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/translate-names]])

# I have given into your hand

The metonym "into your hand" means "into your control or power." AT: "I have given you the power to defeat" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metonymy]])

# your hand ... Begin to possess it ... fight ... terror of you ... news about you ... because of you

Moses speaks to the Israelites as if they were one man, so all instances of "you" and "your" and the commands "begin to possess" and "fight" are singular. (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-you]])

# Sihon

This is the name of a king. See how you translated this in [Deuteronomy 1:4](../01/03.md). (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/translate-names]])

# Heshbon

This is the name of a city. See how you translated this in [Deuteronomy 1:4](../01/03.md). (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/translate-names]])

# fight with him

"fight against him and his army"

# put the fear and terror

The words "fear" and "terror" mean basically the same thing and emphasize that the fear is intense. AT: "put a terrible fear" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-doublet]])

# peoples that are under the whole sky

This is an idiom. AT: "peoples in every land" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-idiom]])

# tremble and be in anguish

This is hendiadys and emphasizes that the people will "tremble in anguish." (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-hendiadys]])

# translationWords

* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/hand]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/amorite]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/king]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/possess]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/fear]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/terror]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/peoplegroup]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/heaven]]