## translationWords

* [[en:tw:appoint]]
* [[en:tw:brother]]
* [[en:tw:faithful]]
* [[en:tw:fear]]
* [[en:tw:god]]
* [[en:tw:jerusalem]]
* [[en:tw:levite]]

## translationNotes

* **When the wall was finished** - This passive clause can be translated as an active clause. AT: "When we had finished the wall" (See: [[en:ta:vol2:translate:figs_activepassive]])
* **the gatekeepers and singers and Levites were appointed** - This passive clause can be translated as an active clause. AT: "I chose the gatekeepers and singers and Levites"
* **gatekeeper** - A person placed at each gate, armed or supported by armed guards (depending on the size of the city) whose responsibility was to identify those entering that were not citizens of the city, register them and note their business there. They also closed and opened the gates at times and for reasons set by the administrator.
* **singers** - This word refers to vocal musicians who led in worship, in processions, and ceremonies, producing music and chants that emphasized and enhanced the occasion.
* **Levites** - The priestly class of people established by God many centuries earlier and now restored by Nehemiah.
* **Hanani...Hananiah** - These are names of males. (See: [[en:ta:vol1:translate:translate_names]])
* **I gave my brother Hanani charge** - "I selected my brother Hanani to be the manager"
* **who had oversight of the citadel** - "who was in charge of the citadel"
* **citadel** - a fortified place where weapons or active soldiers or both were housed. A second meaning may be all fortifications for the city.
* **for he was a faithful man** - "because he was a dependable man" or "because he performed his duty"
* **feared God more than many** - "was more obedient to God than many other people." Nehemiah is giving an accurate and clear reason why Hananiah was appointed.
