# General Information:

Peter identifies himself as the writer and identifies and greets the believers to whom he is writing.

# the foreigners of the dispersion

Peter speaks of his readers as people who live away from their homes in many different countries. (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metaphor]])

# Cappadocia ... Bithynia

Along with the other places that Peter mentions, "Cappadocia" and "Bithynia" were Roman provinces located in what is now the country of Turkey.

# the chosen ones ... according to the foreknowledge of God the Father

"the ones whom God the Father has chosen ... according to his own foreknowledge." God has chosen them according to his own foreknowledge.

# the foreknowledge of God the Father

The abstract noun "foreknowledge" can be translated with a verbal phrase. Possible meanings are 1) God had determined what would happen ahead of time. AT: "what God the Father decided previously" or 2) God knew what would happen ahead of time. AT: "what God the Father knew beforehand" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-abstractnouns]])

# for the sprinkling of the blood of Jesus Christ

Here "the blood" refers to the death of Jesus. Just as Moses sprinkled blood on the people of Israel to symbolize their covenant with God, believers are in covenant with God because of Jesus' death. (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metonymy]] and [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metaphor]]).

# May grace be to you, and may your peace increase

This passage speaks of grace as if it were an object that believers could possess, and of peace as if it were something that could increase in amount. Of course, grace is in reality the kind way God acts toward believers, and peace is how believers live in safety and joy with God. (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-abstractnouns]])

# translationWords

* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/names/peter]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/apostle]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/jesus]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/foreigner]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/disperse]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/elect]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/names/pontus]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/names/galatia]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/names/asia]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/foreordain]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/godthefather]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/sanctify]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/holyspirit]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/obey]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/blood]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/grace]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/peace]]