# General Information:

Peter begins to talk about the believers' salvation and faith. Here he elaborates on a metaphor in which what God promises to do for all believers is spoken of as if it were an inheritance that he passes on to them.

# our Lord Jesus Christ ... has given us new birth

The words "our" and "us" refer to Peter and those to whom he is writing. (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-inclusive]])

# he has given us new birth

"he has caused us to be born again"

# This is for an inheritance

You can translate this using a verb. AT: "We confidently expect to receive an inheritance" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-abstractnouns]])

# inheritance

Receiving what God has promised believers is spoken of as if it were inheriting property and wealth from a family member. (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metaphor]])

# will not perish, will not become stained, and will not fade away

Peter uses three similar phrases to describe the inheritance as something that is perfect and eternal. (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metaphor]])

# It is reserved in heaven for you

This can be stated in active form. AT: "God is reserving it in heaven for you" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-activepassive]])

# You are protected by God's power

This can be stated in active form. AT: "God is protecting you" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-activepassive]])

# by God's power

Here "power" is a way of saying that God is strong and able to protect believers. (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-abstractnouns]])

# through faith

Here "faith" refers to the fact that the believers trust in Christ. AT: "because of your faith" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-abstractnouns]])

# that is ready to be revealed

This can be stated in active form. AT: "that God is ready to reveal" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-activepassive]])

# translationWords

* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/god]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/lordgod]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/bless]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/mercy]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/bornagain]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/confidence]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/inherit]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/resurrection]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/death]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/perish]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/heaven]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/power]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/faith]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/salvation]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/reveal]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/lastday]]