# So gird

"Because of this, gird." Peter uses the word "So" here to refer back to everything he has said about salvation, their faith, and the Spirit of Christ giving revelations to the prophets.

# gird up the loins of your mind

Girding up the loins refers to preparing to work hard. It comes from the custom of tucking the bottom of one's robe into a belt around the waist in order to move with ease. AT: "get your minds ready" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-idiom]])

# Be sober

Here the word "sober" refers to mental clarity and alertness. AT: "Control your thoughts" or "Be careful about what you think" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-idiom]])

# the grace that will be brought to you

This can be stated in active form. AT: "the grace that God will bring to you" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-activepassive]])

# the grace that will be brought to you

Here God's way of dealing kindly with believers is spoken of as if it were an object that he will bring to them. (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metaphor]])

# when Jesus Christ is revealed

This refers to when Christ returns. This can also be expressed with an active form. See how you translated this in [1 Peter 1:7](./06.md). AT: "when Jesus Christ appears to all people" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-activepassive]])

# do not conform yourselves to the desires

"do not desire the same things" AT: "do not live to gratify the desires" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-idiom]])

# translationWords

* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/gird]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/loins]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/mind]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/confidence]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/grace]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/reveal]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/jesus]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/children]]