# You made your souls pure

Here the word "soul" refers to the whole person. AT: "You made yourselves pure" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-synecdoche]])

# pure

Here the idea of cleanliness refers to being acceptable to God. (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metaphor]])

# by obedience to the truth

You can translate this using a verbal phrase. AT: "by obeying the truth" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-abstractnouns]])

# brotherly love

This refers to love between fellow believers.

# love one another earnestly from the heart

Here the word "heart" refers to the seat of the emotions and indicates that they are to love completely. AT: "love one another earnestly and completely" or "love one another earnestly and wholeheartedly" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-idiom]])

# born again, not from perishable seed, but from imperishable seed

Possible meanings are that Peter speaks of the word of God either 1) as the seed of a plant that grows and produces new life in believers or 2) as the tiny cells inside a man or woman that combine to cause a baby to grow inside the woman. (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metaphor]])

# imperishable

"not perishable" or "not permanent"

# through the living and remaining word of God

Peter speaks of God's word as if it were alive forever. In reality, it is God who lives forever, and whose commands and promises last eternally. (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metonymy]])

# translationWords

* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/soul]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/purify]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/obey]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/true]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/love]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/heart]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/bornagain]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/perish]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/seed]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/life]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/wordofgod]]