# General Information:

God continues speaking. He is using many rhetorical questions to challenge Job.

# Can you draw out Leviathan with a fishhook?

God uses this question to remind Job that Job is not powerful like Leviathan. This question can be translated as a statement. AT: "You know that you cannot draw out Leviathan with a fishhook." (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-rquestion]])

# draw out

pull out of the water

# his ... he

The words "his" and "he" refer to Leviathan.

# Or tie up his jaws with a cord?

The words "can you" are understood from the previous question. They can be repeated here. God uses this question to remind Job that Job is not powerful like Leviathan. This question can be translated as a statement.  AT:  "Or can you tie up his jaws with a cord?" or "And you know that you cannot tie up his jaws with a cord." (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-ellipsis]] and [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-rquestion]])

# Can you put a rope into his nose ... with a hook?

God uses this question to remind Job that Job is not powerful like Leviathan. This question can be translated as a statement. AT: "You know that you cannot put a rope into Leviathan's nose ... with a hook." (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-rquestion]])

# Will he make many pleas to you?

God uses this question to remind Job that Job is not powerful like Leviathan. This question can be translated as a statement. AT: "You know that he will not make pleas to you." (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-rquestion]])

# Will he speak soft words to you?

God uses this question to remind Job that Job is not powerful like Leviathan. This question can be translated as a statement. AT: "You know that he will not speak soft words to you." (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-rquestion]])

# translationWords

* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/word]]