# Connecting Statement:

Yahweh continues to rebuke Job. He uses rhetorical questions to remind Job that Job is not powerful like Leviathan.

# Will he make a covenant with you, that you should take him for a servant forever?

This question can be translated as a statement. AT: "You know that he will not make a covenant with you, that you should take him for a servant forever." (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-rquestion]])

# he ... him

The words "he" and "him" refer to Leviathan.

# Will you play with him as you would with a bird?

This question can be translated as a statement. AT: "You know that you cannot play with him as you would play with a bird." (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-rquestion]])

# Will you tie him up for your servant girls?

This question can be translated as a statement. AT: "You know that you cannot tie him up for your servant girls." (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-rquestion]])

# Will the groups of fishermen bargain for him?

This question can be translated as a statement. AT: "You know that the groups of fishermen will not bargain for him." (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-rquestion]])

# Will they divide him up to trade among the merchants?

This question can be translated as a statement. AT: "You know that they will not divide him up to trade among the merchants." (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-rquestion]])

# Will they divide

"Will the groups of fishermen divide"

# translationWords

* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/servant]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/eternity]]