# Connecting Statement:

Yahweh continues to rebuke Job by asking him rhetorical questions. He uses rhetorical questions to remind Job that Yahweh is much more powerful than both Leviathan and Job.

# None is so fierce that he dare stir Leviathan up; who, then, is he who can stand before me?

It would be easier to stir up Leviathan than to stand before Yahweh. This question can be translated as a statement. AT: "Since you know that no person is so fierce that he dare stir Leviathan up, you should certainly know that no one can stand before me." (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-rquestion]])

# Who has first given anything to me in order that I should repay him?

This question can be translated as a statement. AT: "You know that no one has first given anything to me, so there is no one whom I need to repay." (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-rquestion]])

# he ... him

The words "he" and "him" refer to a person.

# I will not keep silent

This can be translated in positive form. AT: "I will certainly speak" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-litotes]])

# legs, nor about the matter of his strength

You may need to add the omitted words. AT: "legs. I will also speak about the matter of his strength" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-ellipsis]])

# strength, nor about his graceful form

You may need to add the omitted words. AT: "strength. I will also speak about his graceful form" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-ellipsis]])

# his

The word "his" refers to Leviathan.

# translationWords

* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/heaven]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/grace]]