# If you return, Israel

Here "return" is a metaphor for changing who they worship, and Israel is a metonym representing the people of Israel. The people had been worshiping idols rather than Yahweh. AT: "If you will come back, people of Israel" or "If you will change who you worship, people of Israel" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metonymy]] and [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metaphor]])

# this is Yahweh's declaration

Yahweh speaks of himself by name to express the certainty of what he is declaring. See how you translated this in [Jeremiah 1:8](../01/07.md). AT: "this is what Yahweh has declared" or "this is what I, Yahweh, have declared" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-123person]])

# then it should be to me that you return

Possible meanings are that 1) this is a command that emphasizes who they should return to. AT: "then come back to me" or "then worship me" 1) this is a repetition of the first phrase, which expresses a condition. AT: "if you will come back to me" or "if you will start worshiping me again" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metonymy]] and [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-idiom]])

# If you remove your detestable things from before me

Here "detestable things" refers to idols, which God hates. AT: "If you remove your disgusting idols from my presence" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metonymy]])

# do not wander from me again

Here "wander" is a metaphor for being unfaithful. AT: "if you remain faithful to me" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metaphor]])

# As Yahweh lives

"As surely as Yahweh is alive." The people use this expression to show that what they say next is certainly true. This is a way of making a solemn promise. AT: "I solemnly swear" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-idiom]])

# the nations will bless themselves in him

Here "the nations" is a metonym for people of other nations. The word "him" refers to Yahweh. Since Yahweh is speaking, it can also be translated as "me." AT: "people of other nations will bless themselves in me" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metonymy]] and [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-123person]])

# the nations will bless themselves in him

Here "bless themselves in him" is a metonym for asking Yahweh to bless them. AT: "the people of the nations will ask Yahweh to bless them" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metonymy]])

# in him they will glory

The word "him" refers to Yahweh. Since Yahweh is speaking, "him" can also be translated as "me." AT: "they will boast in me" or "they will praise me" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-123person]])

# Plow your own ground, and do not sow among thorns

Yahweh tells the people to prepare their lives like a farmer prepares the ground for planting. (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metaphor]])

# translationWords

* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/return]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/names/kingdomofisrael]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/yahweh]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/declare]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/oath]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/true]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/justice]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/righteous]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/nation]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/bless]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/glory]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/names/kingdomofjudah]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/names/jerusalem]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/sow]]