# Circumcise yourselves to Yahweh, and remove the foreskins of your heart

Yahweh describes the people's devotion to him in terms of the physical sign of covenant. AT: "Dedicate yourselves completely to Yahweh" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metaphor]])

# Circumcise yourselves ... remove the foreskins of your heart

These two phrases mean basically the same thing. Together they emphasize the command. (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-parallelism]])

# my fury will break out like fire, and burn with no one to quench it

Yahweh speaks of becoming extremely angry as if his anger were fire. AT: "my anger will burn like a fire and no one will be able to stop it" or "I will be extremely angry, and no one will be able to stop me" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-simile]])

# fury

"great anger"

# Report in Judah and let it be heard in Jerusalem

These phrases mean basically the same thing. Together they emphasize the command. (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-parallelism]])

# let it be heard in Jerusalem

This can be stated in active form. AT: "cause the people in Jerusalem to hear it" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-activepassive]])

# Blow the trumpet in the land

The trumpet would warn the people that their enemies were coming to attack them.

# Let us go to the fortified cities

They would go to the fortified cities for protection from their enemies.

# disaster ... a great collapse

These words mean basically the same thing. The phrase "a great collapse" defines what the "disaster" will be. (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-doublet]])

# for I am bringing disaster from the north and a great collapse

This represents God sending an army from the north to cause disaster and destruction in Judah. AT: "for I will cause an army from the north to come and destroy you" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metaphor]])

# from the north

This represents an enemy army that would come from the north. (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metonymy]])

# translationWords

* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/circumcise]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/heart]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/fire]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/quench]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/evil]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/works]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/report]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/trumpet]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/proclaim]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/zion]]