# A lion is coming

God speaks of a powerful army as if it were a fierce lion. AT: "A powerful and merciless army approaches" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metaphor]])

# thicket

a set of bushes that grew closely together

# someone who will destroy nations

Here "someone" represents a king and his army. (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-synecdoche]])

# is setting out

This idiom refers to starting to move. AT: "is starting to march" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-idiom]])

# to bring horror to your land

This represents destroying the land, which would cause people who see it to be horrified. AT: "to destroy your land" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metonymy]])

# wrap yourself in sackcloth

People would wear sackcloth to show that they were very sad. In this context it would be to show that they were very sorry for the bad things they had done. AT: "put on the clothes that show you are mourning" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/translate-symaction]])

# wail

cry loudly

# For the force of Yahweh's anger has not turned away from us

Anger is spoken of as if it were a living thing that could turn away from people. Here "Yahweh's anger has not turned away from us" means that Yahweh is still very angry with the people. AT: "For Yahweh is still very angry with us" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metaphor]])

# translationWords

* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/lion]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/ruin]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/life]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/sackcloth]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/lament]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/angry]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/turn]]