# besiegers are coming

Besiegers are soldiers who surround a city in order to keep the people in the city from being able to get supplies of food and water.

# They will be like the watchmen of a cultivated field against her all around

Carefully guarding a city to keep people from going in and out is spoken of as if they are carefully watching a field to keep people from stealing from it. AT: "they will guard Jerusalem carefully like watchmen who carefully guard a cultivated field" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-simile]])

# against her all around

The word "her" refers to Jerusalem. Jerusalem was often spoken of as if it were a woman. (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-personification]])

# she has been rebellious against me

The word "she" refers to Jerusalem and represents the people of Jerusalem. The word "me" refers to Yahweh. AT: "the people of Jerusalem have been rebellious against me" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metonymy]])

# this is Yahweh's declaration

Yahweh speaks of himself by name to express the certainty of what he is declaring. See how you translated this in [Jeremiah 1:8](../01/07.md). AT: "this is what Yahweh has declared" or "this is what I, Yahweh, have declared" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-123person]])

# your conduct and your deeds have done these things to you

Here "conduct" and "deeds" are spoken of as if they are people that could do things. These abstract nouns can be expressed with the phrase "what you have done." AT: "These things are happening to you because of what you have done" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-personification]] and [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-abstractnouns]])

# It will strike your very heart

Here "heart" probably refers to the emotions, and "strike your very heart" probably refers to causing them to suffer terribly. AT: "It will be as if it strikes your very heart" or "It will cause you to suffer terrible anguish" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metaphor]])

# translationWords

* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/nation]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/rebel]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/works]]