# Connecting Statement:

Yahweh continues speaking to Judah.

# General Information:

Yahweh speaks of the people of Judah as if they were a prostitute because they were unfaithful to him by worshiping other gods.

# Now that you have been devastated, what will you do?

This question is used to tell the people of Judah that there is nothing they can do to help themselves. AT: "Now that your enemies have devastated you, there is nothing you can do to find help. (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-rquestion]])

# you dress in scarlet ... gold jewelry ... eyes ... with paint

God speaks of the people of Judah as if they were a prostitute making herself look beautiful in order to attract men to her. This can be stated clearly. AT: "Like a prostitute you dress in scarlet ... good jewelry ... eyes ... with paint" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-explicit]])

# you dress in scarlet

Here "scarlet" represents expensive, red clothing. AT: "you wear expensive red clothing" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metonymy]])

# adorn yourself with gold jewelry

"you put on gold jewelry"

# men who lusted for you now reject you

God speaks of the nations that Judah had depended on for wealth and business as if they were men who lusted after Judah. Those nations would reject Judah when they see God's judgment. (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metaphor]])

# they are trying to take away your life

Here "trying to take your life away" represents trying to kill the people of Judah. AT: "They are trying to kill you" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metonymy]])

# distress as in the birth

This simile is used to show how greatly distressed Judah will be. AT: "severe distress as in the pain and suffering a woman has while giving birth" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-simile]])

# the daughter of Zion

God shows his love for the people of Jerusalem by speaking of them as a daughter. AT: "my dear daughter, Zion" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metaphor]])

# Woe to me

"I am in great danger"

# I am fainting

"I am becoming weak"

# translationWords

* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/gold]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/reject]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/firstborn]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/zion]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/woe]]