# Connecting Statement:

Here the scene shifts to a later time. Jesus uses an opportunity to warn his disciples about the Pharisees and Sadducees.

# the other side

You can make clear the understood information. AT: "the other side of the lake" or "the other side of the Sea of Galilee" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-ellipsis]])

# the yeast of the Pharisees and Sadducees

Here "yeast" is a metaphor that refers to evil ideas and wrong teaching. Translate as "yeast" here and do not explain its meaning in your translation. This meaning will be made clear in 16:12. (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metaphor]])

# reasoned among themselves

"discussed this with each other" or "thought about this"

# You of little faith

"You who have such little faith." Jesus addresses his disciples this way because their concern about not bringing bread shows they have little faith in Jesus to provide for them. See how you translated this in [Matthew 6:30](../06/30.md).

# why do you reason ... taken no bread?

Jesus uses a question to rebuke his disciples for not understanding what he just said. AT: "I am disappointed that you think it was because you forgot to bring bread that I talked about the yeast of the Pharisees and Sadducees." (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-rquestion]])

# translationWords

* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/disciple]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/bread]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/jesus]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/yeast]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/pharisee]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/sadducee]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/faith]]