# Simon Bar Jonah

"Simon, son of Jonah" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/translate-names]])

# flesh and blood have not revealed

Here "flesh and blood" refers to a human being. AT: "a human did not reveal" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-synecdoche]])

# this to you

Here "this" refers to Peter's statement that Jesus is the Christ and the Son of the Living God.

# but my Father who is in heaven

The understood information can be made clear. AT: "but it was my Father in heaven who revealed this to you" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-ellipsis]])

# my Father

This is an important title for God that describes the relationship between God and Jesus. (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/guidelines-sonofgodprinciples]])

# I also say to you

This adds emphasis to what Jesus says next.

# you are Peter

The name Peter means "rock." (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-explicit]])

# upon this rock I will build my church

Here "build my church" is a metaphor for uniting the people who believe in Jesus into a community. Possible meanings are 1) "this rock" represents Peter, or 2) "this rock" represents the truth that Peter had just said in [Matthew 16:16](./13.md). (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metaphor]])

# The gates of Hades will not prevail against it

Here "Hades" is spoken of as if it were a city surrounded by walls with gates that keep dead people in and other people out. Here "Hades" represents death, and its "gates" represent its power. Possible meanings are 1) "the powers of death will not overcome my church" or 2) "my church will break down the power of death the way an army breaks into a city." (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metaphor]] and [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metonymy]])

# translationWords

* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/jesus]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/bless]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/peter]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/flesh]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/blood]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/reveal]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/godthefather]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/heaven]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/church]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/gate]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/hades]]