# Connecting Statement:

Jesus tells his disciples for the first time that he will die soon.

# From that time Jesus started to tell ... Then Peter took him aside

Jesus tells them for the first time that he will die soon. He will tell them the same thing many times after this first time. It is after this first time that Peter took Jesus aside. (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/writing-background]])

# suffer many things at the hand of the elders and chief priests and scribes

Here "hand" refers to power. AT: "where the elders, chief priests, and scribes will cause him to suffer" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metonymy]])

# scribes, be killed, and be raised back to life on the third day

Here to raise back to life is an idiom for causing someone who has died to become alive again. This can be stated in active form. The elders and chief priests would accuse Jesus so that others would kill him. AT: "scribes. People will then kill him , and on the third day God will make him become alive again" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-activepassive]])

# third day

"Third" is the ordinal form of "three." (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/translate-ordinal]])

# Peter took him aside

"Peter spoke to Jesus when no one else could hear them"

# May this be far from you

This is an idiom that means "may this never happen." AT: "No" or "Never" or "May God forbid this" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-idiom]])

# Get behind me, Satan! You are a stumbling block to me

Jesus means that Peter is acting like Satan because Peter is trying to prevent Jesus from accomplishing what God sent him to do. AT: "Get behind me, because you are acting like Satan! You are a stumbling block to me" or "Get behind me, Satan! I call you Satan because you are a stumbling block to me" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metaphor]])

# Get behind me

"Get away from me"

# translationWords

* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/jesus]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/disciple]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/names/jerusalem]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/suffer]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/hand]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/elder]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/chiefpriests]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/scribe]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/raise]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/biblicaltimeday]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/names/peter]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/rebuke]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/lord]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/satan]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/stumblingblock]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/god]]