# follow me

Following Jesus here represents being one of his disciples. AT: "be my disciple" or "be one of my disciples" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metaphor]])

# must deny himself

"must not give in to his own desires" or "must forsake his own desires"

# take up his cross, and follow me

"carry his cross, and follow me." The cross represents suffering and death. Taking up the cross represents being willing to suffer and die. AT: "and obey me even to the point of suffering and dying" or "and he must obey me even to the point of suffering and dying" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metonymy]] and [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metaphor]])

# and follow me

Following Jesus here represents obeying him. AT: "and obey me" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metaphor]])

# For whoever wants

"For anyone who wants"

# will lose it

This does not mean the person must necessarily die. It is a metaphor that means the person will consider obeying Jesus as being more important than his own life. (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metaphor]])

# for my sake

"because he trusts me" or "on my account" or "because of me"

# will find it

This metaphor means the person will experience spiritual life with God. AT: "will find true life" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metaphor]])

# For what does it profit a person ... his life?

Jesus uses a question to teach his disciples. AT: "It does not profit a person ... his life" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-rquestion]])

# if he gains the whole world

The words "the whole world" are an exaggeration for great riches. AT: "if he gains everything he desires" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-hyperbole]])

# but forfeits his life

"but he loses his life"

# What can a person give in exchange for his life?

Jesus uses a question to teach his disciples. AT: "There is nothing that a person can give to regain his life" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-rquestion]])

# translationWords

* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/jesus]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/disciple]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/cross]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/save]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/life]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/profit]]