# Our pursuers were swifter than the eagles in the sky

The author compares the speed of their pursuers to the speed of eagles flying. Eagles fly very quickly to catch other animals. AT: "Those who were chasing us were faster than eagles" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-simile]])

# lay in wait for us

"waited to attack us"

# The breath in our nostrils

This phrase refers to the king. He is spoken of as if he were breath; the breath keeps the body alive, and the king keeps his people alive by ruling them well and protecting them from their enemies. AT: "The one who is like breath in our nostrils" or "The one who protects our lives" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metaphor]])

# Yahweh's anointed one

Here being "anointed" represents being the king. God had told people to anoint whomever he had chosen to be king. AT: "the one whom Yahweh had chosen to be anointed as king" or "the king Yahweh chose" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metonymy]])

# he was the one who was captured in their pits

Here "pits" refers to the enemies' plans to capture him. This can be stated in active form. AT: "he was the one whom our enemies captured by their plans" or "our enemies made plans to capture our king, and they did capture him" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metaphor]] and [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-activepassive]])

# of whom it was said

This phrase with the quote following it gives us more information about the king. The quote shows what the people had hoped the king would do for them before he was trapped. It can be expressed in active form. AT: "even though we had said about him" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-distinguish]] and [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-activepassive]])

# Under his shadow we will live among the nations

Here "his shadow" represents him protecting them. AT: "Under his protection we will live among the nations" or "Though we may have to live in other nations, he will protect us" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metaphor]])

# translationWords

* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/eagle]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/desert]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/breath]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/yahweh]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/anoint]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/pit]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/nation]]