# Rejoice and be glad

"Rejoice" and "be glad" mean basically the same thing and emphasize the intensity of gladness. The writer uses these words to mock the people. He knew that the people of Edom would be glad that Jerusalem is being destroyed. AT: "Be very glad" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-doublet]] and [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-irony]])

# daughter of Edom

The people of the land of Edom are spoken of as if they were a woman. They were Israel's enemy. (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-personification]])

# But to you also the cup will be passed

The cup is a metonym for the wine in it. The wine is a metaphor for punishment. AT: "But Yahweh will also punish you" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metaphor]] and [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metonymy]])

# Daughter of Zion

The people of Jerusalem are spoken of as if they were a woman. (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-personification]])\

# your punishment will come to an end

"your punishment will end." The abstract noun punishment can be expressed with the verb "punish." AT: "Yahweh will stop punishing you" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-abstractnouns]])

# he will not extend your exile

"Yahweh will not make your time in exile longer" or "Yahweh will not make you stay in exile longer"

# he will uncover your sins

Here the sins not being known by others are spoken of as if they are under a cover. Removing the cover represents letting other people know about them. AT: "he will expose your sins" or "he will cause other people to know how you have sinned" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metaphor]])