# David tore his clothes ... the men with him did the same

David and his men tore their clothes as a sign of mourning for the death of King Saul. (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/translate-symaction]])

# for the people of Yahweh, and for the house of Israel

Both statements mean basically same thing. The word "house" is a metonym that represents the descendants of Israel. But, both "people" and "house" probably are a synecdoche representing the soldiers of Israel. AT: "for the Israelite soldiers" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-parallelism]] and [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metonymy]] and [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-synecdoche]])

# Yahweh

This is the name of God that he revealed to his people in the Old Testament. See the translationWord page about Yahweh concerning how to translate this.

# they had fallen by the sword

Here "fallen" is a polite way of referring to being killed. Also, "sword" represents a battle. This here means "had been killed." AT: "they had died in battle" or "enemies had killed them in battle" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-euphemism]] and [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metonymy]])

# Where are you from?

The man had already stated that he is an Amalekite in [2 Samuel 1:8](./08.md). David apparently asks the man to confirm this because of the serious judgment that David was going to pronounce on the man.

# translationWords

* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/mourn]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/fast]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/saul]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/jonathan]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/peoplegroup]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/yahweh]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/house]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/israel]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/sword]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/foreigner]]