# Why were you not afraid to kill Yahweh's anointed ... hand?

This rhetorical question is used to rebuke the man. It can be translated as a statement. AT: "You should have feared Yahweh and not killed his anointed ... hand!" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-rquestion]])

# Yahweh's anointed king

This refers to Saul.

# with your own hand

This phrase refers to doing something yourself. AT: "yourself" or "personally" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metonymy]])

# struck him down

This idiom means "killed him." (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-idiom]])

# Your blood is on your head

Here "blood" is a metonym that implies "shed blood" and is associated with death. Here "your head" is a synecdoche referring to the man and means that he is responsible. AT: "You are responsible for your own death" or "You have caused your own death" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metonymy]] and [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-synecdoche]])

# your own mouth has testified against you

Here "your own mouth" refers to the man himself. AT: "you have testified against yourself" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-synecdoche]])

# translationWords

* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/fear]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/yahweh]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/anoint]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/king]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/call]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/amalekite]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/death]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/blood]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/head]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/testimony]]