# General Information:

David sings a song of mourning for Saul and Jonathan.

# Song of the Bow

This was the title of the song.

# which has been written in The Book of Jashar

This is background information added to tell the reader what happened to the song in the future. (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/writing-background]])

# The Book of Jashar

The word "Jashar" means "upright." AT: "The Book of the Upright" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/translate-names]])

# Your glory, Israel, is dead

"Your glory" refers to Saul. (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metonymy]])

# the mighty

The phrase "the mighty" refers to both Saul and Jonathan. This nominal adjective is plural, and can be stated as "the mighty ones."(See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metonymy]] and [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-nominaladj]])

# have fallen

The word "fallen" here means "died." (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-euphemism]])

# Do not tell it in Gath ... do not proclaim it in the streets of Ashkelon

These two phrases mean the same thing and are repeated as part of the poetry of the song. (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-parallelism]])

# Gath ... Ashkelon

Gath and Ashkelon are two of the Philistines' major cities. The Philistines killed Saul and Jonathan.

# so that the daughters of the Philistines may not rejoice ... so that the daughters of the uncircumcised may not celebrate

These two phrases mean the same thing and are repeated as part of the poetry of the song. (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-parallelism]])

# the daughters of the uncircumcised

This phrase refers to people who do not follow Yahweh, such as the Philistines. (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metonymy]])