# Mountains of Gilboa

David speaks directly to the "Mountains of Gilboa" as if they were listening to his song. (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-apostrophe]])

# let there not be dew or rain on you

David curses the ground where King Saul died in the battle. This was out of reverence for Saul, who was God's anointed king.

# the shield of the mighty was defiled

The "mighty" here refers to Saul. The shield was defiled because it fell on the ground, and because the king's blood was shed on it. (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metonymy]])

# The shield of Saul is no longer anointed with oil

Saul's shield was made of leather. To care for the shield, it was rubbed with oil. AT: "No one will care for Saul's shield anymore"

# From the blood of those who have been killed, from the bodies of the mighty, the bow of Jonathan did not turn back, and the sword of Saul did not return empty

Saul and Jonathan are shown here to have been fierce and valiant warriors. (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-parallelism]])

# the sword of Saul did not return empty

Saul's sword is spoken of as if it were a living thing that could return on its own. Rather than return empty, it was carrying the blood of Saul's enemies that it killed. (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-personification]] and [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-litotes]])

# translationWords

* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/grain]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/sacrifice]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/shield]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/defile]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/anoint]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/oil]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/body]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/mighty]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/bowweapon]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/turn]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/sword]]