# In confidence

The word "confidence" is an abstract noun. The writer recalls a time when he was prospering and felt confident and safe. AT: "When I was confident" or "When I felt safe" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-abstractnouns]])

# I will never be shaken

The word "shaken" is a metaphor for defeat. AT: "No one will defeat me" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metaphor]])

# by your favor

The abstract noun "favor" can be stated as the verb "favored" or the adjective "kind." AT: "when you favored me" or "when you were kind to me" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-abstractnouns]])

# you established me as a strong mountain

The writer's security is spoken of as if he were a strong mountain. AT: "you made me as secure as a high mountain" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metaphor]])

# when you hid your face

This is an idiom. AT: "when you stopped helping me" or "when you rejected me" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-idiom]])

# I was troubled

"I was fearful" or "I was worried"

# sought favor from my Lord

The phrase "sought favor" means to ask for help. AT: "I pleaded for you to help me" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metaphor]])

# from my Lord

The writer is referring to Yahweh in third person. It can be stated in second person. AT: "from you, my Lord" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-123person]])

# translationWords

* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/confidence]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/favor]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/face]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/seek]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/lordgod]]