# General Information:

Yahweh continues telling Moses what the people must do so their offerings will be acceptable to him.

# made from these things

This can be stated in active form. AT: "that you made from the flour and oil" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-activepassive]])

# it will be presented

This can be stated in active form. AT: "you will present it" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-activepassive]])

# Then the priest ... made by fire

For 2:9-10 see how you translated many of these words in [Leviticus 2:2-3](./01.md).

# a representative offering

The handful of the grain offering represents the whole grain offering. This means the whole offering belongs to Yahweh. See how you translated this in [Leviticus 2:2](./01.md).

# It will be an offering made by fire

This can be stated in active form. AT: "It will be a burnt offering" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-activepassive]])

# it will produce a sweet aroma for Yahweh

Yahweh being pleased with the sincere worshiper who offered the sacrifice is spoken of as if God were pleased with the aroma of the burning sacrifice. See how you translated this in [Leviticus 1:9](../01/07.md). (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metaphor]])

# from the offerings to Yahweh made by fire

This can be stated in active form. AT: "from the burnt offerings to Yahweh" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-activepassive]])

# translationWords

* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/grainoffering]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/yahweh]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/priest]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/altar]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/names/aaron]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/holy]]