# Connecting Statement:

This second warning is longer and more detailed and includes chapters 3 and 4. The writer begins by showing that Christ is better than his servant Moses.

# holy brothers

Here "brothers" refer to fellow Christians, including both men and women. AT: "holy brothers and sisters" or "my holy fellow believers" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metaphor]] and [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-gendernotations]])

# you share in a heavenly calling

Here "heavenly" represents God. AT: "God has called us together" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metonymy]])

# the apostle and high priest

Here the word "apostle" means someone who has been sent. In this passage, it does not refer to any of the twelve apostles. AT: "the one whom God sent and is the high priest"

# of our confession

This can be reworded so that the abstract noun "confession" is expressed as the verb "confess." AT: "whom we confess" or "in whom we believe" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-abstractnouns]])

# in God's house

The Hebrew people to whom God revealed himself are spoken of as if they were a literal house. AT: "to all of God's people" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metaphor]])

# Jesus has been considered

This can be stated in active form. AT: "God has considered Jesus" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-activepassive]])

# the one who built everything

God's acts of creating the world are spoken of as if he had built a house. (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metaphor]])

# every house is built by someone

This can be stated in active form. AT: "every house has someone who built it" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-activepassive]])

# translationWords

* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/holy]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/brother]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/heaven]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/call]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/jesus]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/apostle]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/highpriest]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/confess]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/faithful]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/appoint]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/names/moses]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/houseofgod]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/worthy]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/glory]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/honor]]