# General Information:

This quotation is from the Psalms.

# your ancestors

Here "your" is plural and refers to the people of Israel. (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-you]])

# by testing me

Here "me" refers to God.

# forty years

"40 years" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/translate-numbers]])

# I was displeased

"I was angry" or "I was greatly unhappy"

# They are always being led astray in their hearts

"Led astray" here is a metaphor, as if their hearts are directing them from the correct path onto the wrong path. This can be stated in active form. AT: "They are always deceiving themselves" or "Their hearts are always deceiving" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-activepassive]]) (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metaphor]])

# They are always being led astray in their hearts

People who are unfaithful to God are spoken of as if someone were leading them off the right path to follow. AT: "They always refuse to follow me" or "They will not do what I command" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metaphor]])

# in their hearts

Here "hearts" refers to their minds or desires. (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metonymy]])

# They have not known my ways

This speaks of a manner of conducting one's life as if it were a way or a path. AT: "They have not understood how I want them to conduct their lives" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metaphor]])

# They will never enter my rest

The peace and security provided by God are spoken of as if they were rest that he can give, and as if they were a place to which people could go. AT: "They will never enter the place of rest" or "I will never allow them to experience my blessings of rest" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metaphor]])

# translationWords

* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/father]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/rebel]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/test]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/biblicaltimeyear]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/works]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/generation]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/astray]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/oath]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/angry]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/rest]]