# General Information:

The word "they" refers to the disobedient Israelites, and "we" refers to the author and readers. (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-inclusive]])

# Who was it who heard God and rebelled? Was it not all those who came out of Egypt through Moses?

The author uses questions to teach his readers. These two questions can be joined as one statement, if needed. AT: "All those who came out of Egypt with Moses heard God, yet they still rebelled." (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-rquestion]])

# With whom was he angry for forty years? Was it not with those who sinned, whose dead bodies fell in the wilderness?

The author uses questions to teach his readers. These two questions can be joined as one statement, if needed. AT: "For forty years, God was angry with those who sinned, and he let them die in the wilderness." (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-rquestion]])

# forty years

"40 years" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/translate-numbers]])

# To whom did he swear that they would not enter his rest, if it was not to those who disobeyed him?

The author uses this question to teach his readers. AT: "And it was to those who disobeyed that he swore they would not enter his rest." (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-rquestion]])

# they would not enter his rest

The peace and security provided by God are spoken of as if they were rest that he can give, and as if they were a place to which people could go. AT: "they would not enter the place of rest" or "they would not experience his blessings of rest" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metaphor]])

# because of unbelief

The abstract noun "unbelief" can be translated with a verbal phrase. AT: "because they did not believe him" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-abstractnouns]])

# translationWords

* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/god]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/rebel]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/egypt]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/moses]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/angry]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/biblicaltimeyear]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/sin]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/desert]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/oath]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/rest]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/disobey]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/unbeliever]]