# Connecting Statement:

Jesus continues to teach his disciples about prayer.

# Which of you will have ... to set before him'?

Jesus used a question to teach the disciples. AT: "Suppose one of you has ... to set before him'." or "Suppose you have ... to set before him'." (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-rquestion]])

# lend to me three loaves of bread

"let me borrow three loaves of bread" or "give me three loaves of bread and I will pay you later." The host does not have any food ready to give to his guest.

# three loaves of bread

Bread is often used to represent food in general. AT: "enough cooked food for a meal" or "enough prepared food for a person to eat" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-synecdoche]])

# just came in from the road

It is implied that the visitor has come far from his home. AT: "was traveling and just came to my house" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-explicit]])

# anything to set before him

"any food ready to give him"

# I am not able to get up

"It is not convenient for me to get up"

# I say to you

Jesus was speaking to the disciples. The word "you" is plural. (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-you]])

# give bread to you because you are his friend

Jesus addresses the disciples as if they were the ones asking for bread. AT: "give bread to him because he is his friend"

# because of your shameless persistence

The abstract noun "persistence" can be translated as "persist" or "continue to ask." AT: "because you persist shamelessly" or "because you boldly continue to ask him" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-abstractnouns]])