# If Satan is divided against himself

"Satan" here is referring to the demons who follow Satan as well as to Satan himself. AT: "If Satan and members of his kingdom are fighting among themselves" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metonymy]])

# If Satan ... how will his kingdom stand?

Jesus uses a question to teach the people. This can be translated as a statement. AT: "If Satan ... his kingdom will not last." or "If Satan ... his kingdom will fall apart." (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-rquestion]])

# For you say I cast out demons by Beelzebul

"For you say that it is by the power of Beelzebul that I make demons leave people." The next part of his argument can be stated explicitly: "That would mean that Satan is divided against himself" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-explicit]])

# If I ... by whom do your followers drive them out?

"If I ... by whose power do your followers force demons to leave people?" Jesus uses a question to teach the people. The meaning of Jesus' question can be made explicit. AT: "If I ... then we must agree that your followers also drive out demons by Beelzebul's power. But you do not believe that it is true." (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-rquestion]] and [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-explicit]])

# they will be your judges

"your followers who cast out demons by God's power will judge you for saying that I cast out demons by Beelzebul's power"

# by the finger of God

The "finger of God" refers to God's power. (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metonymy]])

# then the kingdom of God has come to you

"this shows that God's kingdom has come to you"