# Connecting Statement:

Jesus finishes teaching the crowd.

# General Information:

Verses 33-36 are a metaphor where Jesus speaks of his teaching as "light" that he wants his disciples to obey and share with others. He speaks of people who do not know or accept his teaching as being in "darkness." (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metaphor]])

# puts it in a hidden place or under a basket

"hides it or puts in under a basket"

# but on a lampstand

The understood subject and verb in this clause may be supplied. AT: "but a person places it on a lampstand" or "but a person puts it on a table" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-ellipsis]])

# Your eye is the lamp of the body

In this part of the metaphor, the things they saw Jesus do provided understanding just as an eye provides light for the body. AT: "Your eye is like the lamp of the body" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metaphor]])

# Your eye

The eye is a metonym for vision. (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metonymy]])

# the body

The body is a synecdoche for a person's life. (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-synecdoche]])

# When your eye is good

Here "eye" here is a metonym for vision. AT: "When your vision is good" or "when you see well" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metonymy]])

# the whole body is filled with light

This can be stated in active form. AT: "the light will fill your whole body" or "you will be able to see everything clearly" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-activepassive]])

# when your eye is bad

Here "eye" is a metonym for vision. AT: "When your vision is bad" or "when you see poorly" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metonymy]])

# your body is full of darkness

"you will not be able to see anything"

# be careful that the light in you is not darkness

"make sure that what you think is light is not actually darkness" or "make sure you know what is light and make sure you know what is darkness"

# then your whole body will be like when a lamp shines its brightness on you

Jesus states the same truth as a simile. He speaks of people who are full of truth as if they are a lamp that shines brightly. (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-simile]])

# translationWords

* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/lamp]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/lampstand]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/light]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/good]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/darkness]]