# For this reason

This refers back to the previous statement that the teachers of the law burdened people with rules.

# God's wisdom said

"wisdom" is treated as if it was able to speak for God. AT: "God in his wisdom said" or "God wisely said" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-personification]])

# I will send to them prophets and apostles

"I will send prophets and apostles to my people." God had declared beforehand that he would send prophets and apostles to the ancestors of the Jewish audience to whom Jesus was speaking.

# they will persecute and kill some of them

"my people will persecute and kill some of the prophets and apostles." God had declared beforehand that the ancestors of the Jewish audience to whom Jesus was speaking would persecute and kill the prophets and apostles.

# This generation, then, will be held responsible for all the blood of the prophets shed

The people to whom Jesus was speaking will be held responsible for the murder of the prophets by their ancestors. AT: "Therefore, God will hold this generation responsible for all the deaths of the prophets that people have killed" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metonymy]] and [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-activepassive]])

# the blood of the prophets shed

The "blood ... shed" refers to the blood spilled when they were killed. AT: "the murder of the prophets" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metonymy]])

# Zechariah

This was probably the priest in the Old Testament who rebuked the people of Israel for idolatry. This was not the Father of John the Baptist.

# who was killed

This could be stated in active form. AT: "that the people killed" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-activepassive]])

# translationWords

* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/god]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/wise]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/send]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/prophet]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/apostle]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/persecute]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/generation]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/blood]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/abel]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/zechariahot]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/altar]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/sanctuary]]