# It happened

This phrase is used here to mark the beginning of a new part of the story. If your language has a way for doing this, you could consider using it here. (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/writing-newevent]])

# settled

to be comfortable and happy, without the desire to move or change

# I am living in a house of cedar

Cedar is a kind of tree that is known for its strength. If you have an equivalent type of tree in your culture, you can use that name, otherwise you can reword this. AT: "I am living in a strong, permanent house" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-explicit]])

# the ark of the covenant of Yahweh is staying under a tent

Tents are temporary dwellings. If you do not have tents in your culture, you can word this differently. AT: "the ark of the covenant of Yahweh is staying in a temporary place" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-explicit]])

# do what is in your heart

Here "heart" represents the mind. AT: "do what you think you should" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metonymy]])

# God is with you

Here "with you" means God is helping and blessing David. (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-idiom]])

# translationWords

* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/king]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/names/nathan]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/prophet]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/life]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/cedar]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/arkofthecovenant]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/tent]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/names/david]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/heart]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/god]]