# General Information:

Yahweh describes his promises to King David through the prophet Nathan.

# Now

This does not mean "at this moment," but is used to draw attention to the important point that follows.

# tell my servant David

Yahweh is still telling the prophet Nathan what he should tell David.

# I took you from the pasture

David's job as a shepherd is referred to by the place he watched his sheep. AT: "I took you from your job as a shepherd" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metonymy]])

# pasture

This is an area of land where animals feed on the grass. See how you translated this word in [1 Chronicles 4:39 and 4:40](../04/39.md).

# I have been with you

Here "with you" means that Yahweh has helped and blessed David. (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-idiom]])

# cut off all your enemies

Yahweh destroying David's enemies is spoken of as if Yahweh cut them off, as one would cut a piece of cloth or cut a branch from a tree. (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metaphor]])

# I will make you a name

Here "name" represents a person's reputation. AT: "I will make your name to be great and well known" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metonymy]])

# the great ones

The phrase "great ones" means famous persons.

# translationWords

* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/yahwehofhosts]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/sheep]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/ruler]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/peopleofgod]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/cutoff]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/adversary]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/name]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/earth]]