# Connecting Statement:

God continues describing his promises to King David through the prophet Nathan.

# General Information:

The words "your" and "you" in these verses refer to David.

# I will appoint a place

"I will choose a place"

# will plant them there

God causing the people to live in the land permanently and securely is spoken of as if he would plant them in the land. AT: "I will settle them there" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metaphor]])

# be troubled no more

This can be stated in active form. AT: "no one will ever trouble them" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-activepassive]])

# from the days

Here "days" represents a longer period of time. AT: "from the time" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metonymy]])

# I commanded judges

After the people of Israel entered the land of Canaan and before they had kings to rule them, God appointed leaders called "judges" to lead them in times of trouble.

# to be over my people Israel

To be in authority is referred to as being over someone. AT: "to rule my people Israel" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-idiom]])

# subdue

make a person or animal unable to attack

# build you a house

Here the metonym "house" refers to David's ancestors continuing on as the rulers of Israel. In [1 Chronicles 17:4](./03.md) God told David he would not be the one to build a house for Yahweh. There "house" represented a temple. If your language has a word that can express both ideas, use it here and in 17:4. (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metonymy]])

# translationWords

* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/appoint]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/trouble]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/evil]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/oppress]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/command]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/judgeposition]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/house]]