# Connecting Statement:

Yahweh continues describing his promises to King David through the prophet Nathan.

# I will be a father to him, and he will be my son

The prophecy in 17:11-14 refers to Solomon, David's son. But, aspects of the prophecy will be fulfilled by Jesus. So, here it is best to translate the words "father" and "son" with your normal words for a biological father and son.

# I will not take my covenant faithfulness away from him, as I took it from Saul

The abstract noun "faithfulness" can be translated as "faithfully." AT: "I will never stop faithfully loving him, as I stopped loving Saul" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-abstractnouns]])

# I will set him over my house and in my kingdom forever, and his throne will be established forever

These two phrases have similar meanings and emphasize that David's dynasty will last forever. (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-parallelism]])

# his throne will be established forever

This can be stated in active form. AT: "I will establish his throne forever" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-activepassive]])

# his throne

A king's right to rule is referred to by the place a king sits. AT: "his right to rule" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metonymy]])

# reported to him

"told him"

# all these words

Here "words" represents what Yahweh said. (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metonymy]])

# translationWords

* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/father]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/son]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/covenantfaith]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/saul]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/ruler]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/house]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/nathan]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/david]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/vision]]