# he said

"David said"

# Who am I, Yahweh God, and what is my family, that you have brought me to this point?

- David asks this question to express the deep emotion he felt from hearing Yahweh's proclamation. This rhetorical question can be translated as a statement. AT: "My family and I are not worthy of this honor, Yahweh God." (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-rquestion]])

# this was a small thing

Something that is not important is described as being small. (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-idiom]])

# in your sight

Here sight represents judgment or evaluation. AT: "in your judgment" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metaphor]])

# your servant's family

Here David refers to himself as "your servant." This can be stated in first person. AT: "my family" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-123person]])

# for a great while to come

This speaks about time as if it were something that travels and arrives somewhere. AT: "and what will happen to them in the future" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metaphor]])

# What more can I, David, say to you?

David uses this question to emphasize that he has nothing left to say to Yahweh. AT: "There is nothing more I can say to you." (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-rquestion]])

# your servant

Here David refers to himself as "your servant." This can be stated in first person. AT: "me" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-123person]])

# You have honored your servant. You have given your servant special recognition

These two phrases have similar meanings and are repeated for emphasis. (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-parallelism]])

# You have given your servant special recognition

The abstract noun "recognition" can be translated using the verb "recognize." AT: "You have recognized your servant in a special way" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-abstractnouns]])

# translationWords

* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/yahweh]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/god]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/family]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/servant]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/generation]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/honor]]