# Connecting Statement:

David continues to speak to Yahweh.

# your servant's sake

Here David refers to himself as "your servant." This can be stated in first person. AT: "my sake" or "my benefit" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-123person]])

# to fulfill your own purpose

"to accomplish what you planned to do"

# there is none like you, and there is no God besides you

These phrases have similar meaning and are repeated for emphasis. (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-parallelism]])

# as we have always heard

Here "we" refers to David and the nation of Israel. (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-exclusive]])

# what nation on earth ... by great and awesome deeds?

This question expects a negative answer to make the point that there was no other nation like Israel. It can be translated as a statement. AT: "there is no nation on earth ... by great and awesome deeds." (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-rquestion]])

# you rescued from Egypt

The implied information is that they were rescued from slavery. AT: "you rescued from slavery in Egypt" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-explicit]])

# to make a name for yourself

Here "name" represents Yahweh's reputation. AT: "to make all people know who you are" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metonymy]])

# You drove out nations

Here "nations" represents the people groups that were living in Canaan. (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metonymy]])

# translationWords

* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/reveal]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/works]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/nation]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/earth]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/israel]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/names/egypt]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/name]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/awe]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/castout]]