# Connecting Statement:

Bildad continues speaking.

# How then can man ... God? How can he who is born ... him?

These two questions are used together to emphasize that it is impossible for a man to be good enough before God. (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-parallelism]] and [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-rquestion]])

# How then can man be righteous with God?

The implicit reaction is that he cannot. AT: "A man can never be righteous before God." (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-rquestion]])

# How can he who is born ... acceptable to him?

The implicit reaction is that he cannot. AT: "He who is born of a woman cannot be clean or acceptable to him." (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-rquestion]])

# he who is born of a woman

This idiom includes everyone. AT: "any person" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-idiom]])

# See

The word "See" here adds emphasis to what follows. AT: "Indeed"

# the moon has no brightness to him

The abstract noun "brightness" can be stated as an adjective. AT: "the moon is not bright enough for God" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-abstractnouns]])

# the stars are not pure in his sight

Here "pure" means "perfect." AT: "he does not think even the stars are perfect"

# How much less man ... a son of man, who is a worm

These two lines say the same thing and are used together to emphasize that man is not perfect. (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-parallelism]])

# who is a worm

Bildad states that human beings are as worthless as worms. AT: "who is as worthless as a worm" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metaphor]])

# a son of man

This is another way of referring to a person. AT: "a person" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metonymy]])

# translationWords

* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/righteous]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/god]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/clean]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/purify]]