# Connecting Statement:

This begins the account of Jesus entering into the temple.

# General Information:

In verse 13, Jesus quotes the prophet Isaiah to rebuke the vendors and money changers.

# Jesus entered the temple

Jesus did not enter the actual temple. He entered the courtyard around the temple. (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-explicit]])

# who bought and sold

Merchants were selling animals and other items that travelers bought to offer the proper sacrifices at the temple.

# He said to them

"Jesus said to those who were changing money and buying and selling things"

# It is written

This can be stated in active form. AT: "The prophets wrote long ago" or "God said long ago" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-activepassive]])

# My house will be called

This can be stated in active form. AT: "My house will be" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-activepassive]])

# My house

Here "My" refers to God and "house" refers to the temple.

# house of prayer

This is an idiom. AT: "a place where people pray" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-idiom]])

# den of robbers

Jesus uses a metaphor to scold the people for buying and selling items in the temple. AT: "like a place where robbers hide" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metaphor]])

# the blind and the lame

These nominal adjectives can be stated as adjectives. AT: "those who were blind and those who were lame" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-nominaladj]])

# lame

to have an injured foot or leg that makes walking difficult