# I say to you

This adds emphasis to what Jesus says next.

# to you

Here "you" is plural. Jesus was speaking to the religious leaders and also to the Jewish people in general. (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-you]])

# the kingdom of God will be taken away from you and will be given to a nation that produces its fruits

Here "kingdom of God" refers to God's rule as king. This can be stated in active form. AT: "God will reject you, the Jewish people, and he will be king over people from other nations who bear fruit" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metonymy]] and [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-activepassive]])

# that produces its fruits

"Fruits" is a metaphor for "results" or outcome." AT: "that produces good results" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-idiom]])

# Whoever falls on this stone will be broken to pieces

Here, "this stone" is the same stone as in [Matthew 21:42](./42.md). This is a metaphor that means the Christ will destroy anyone who rebels against him. This can be stated in active form. AT: "The stone will break into pieces anyone who falls on it" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metaphor]] and [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-activepassive]])

# But anyone on whom it falls will be crushed

This means basically the same thing as the previous sentence. It is a metaphor that means the Christ will have the final judgment and will destroy everyone who rebels against him. (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-parallelism]] and [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metaphor]])

# translationWords

* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/kingdomofgod]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/nation]]