# General Information:

Here the word "they" refers to the unbelieving Jews and wicked men from the marketplace.

# being moved with jealousy

The feeling of jealousy is spoken of as if jealousy were actually moving the person. AT: "feeling very jealous" or "feeling very angry" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metaphor]])

# with jealousy

It can be stated explicitly that these Jews were jealous because some of the Jews and Greeks believed Paul's message. (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-explicit]])

# took certain wicked men

Here "took" does not mean the Jews took these people by force. It means the Jews persuaded these wicked men to help them.

# certain wicked men

"some evil men." The word "men" here refers specifically to males.

# from the marketplace

"from the public square." This is a public place of business, where buying and selling of goods, cattle, or services take place.

# set the city in an uproar

Here "the city" stands for the people in the city. AT: "caused the people of the city to be in an uproar" or "caused the people of the city to riot" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metonymy]])

# Assaulting the house

"Violently attacking the house." This probably means the people were throwing rocks at the house and trying to break down the door of the house.

# Jason

This is the name of a man. (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/translate-names]])

# out to the people

Possible meanings or "people" are 1) a governmental or legal group of citizens gathered to make a decision or 2) a mob.

# certain other brothers

Here "brothers" refers to believers. AT: "some other believers"

# before the officials

"in the presence of the officials"

# These men who have

The Jewish leaders were speaking and the phrase, "These men," refers to Paul and Silas.

# turned the world upside down

This phrase is another way of saying Paul and Silas where causing trouble everywhere they went. The Jewish leaders were exaggerating the influence Paul and Silas were having with their teaching. AT: "caused trouble everywhere in the world" or "caused trouble everywhere they have gone" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-hyperbole]] and [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-idiom]])

# Jason has welcomed

This phrase signals that Jason was in agreement with the apostles' troubling message.

# translationWords

* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/unbeliever]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/jew]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/jealous]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/paul]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/silas]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/brother]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/decree]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/caesar]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/king]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/jesus]]