# General Information:

Here the words "They" and "we" refer to the Epicurean and Stoic philosophers. (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-exclusive]])

# General Information:

The words "him," "He" and "you" refer to Paul. (See: [Acts 17:18](./18.md))

# They took ... brought him

This does not mean they arrested Paul. The philosophers invited Paul to speak formally to their leaders.

# to the Areopagus

The "Areopagus" was the place where the leaders met. AT: "to the leaders that met on the Areopagus" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metonymy]])

# the Areopagus, saying

Here the leaders on the Areopagus are speaking. This can stated as a new sentence. AT: "the Areopagus. The leaders said to Paul"

# Areopagus

This is a prominent rock outcropping or hill in Athens upon which the supreme court of Athens may have met. (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/translate-names]])

# For you bring some strange things to our ears

Paul's teachings about Jesus and the resurrection are spoken of as an object that a person can bring to another person. Here "ears" refers to what they hear. AT: "For you teachings some things that we have never heard before" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metaphor]] and [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metonymy]])

# Now ... something new

This word is used here to mark a break in the main story line. Here Luke tells background information about the people who lived in Athens and their interest in new teachings. (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/writing-background]])

# Now all the Athenians and the strangers living there

The word "all" is a generalization referring to many. AT: "Now many of the Athenians and the strangers living there" or "Now many of the Athenians and the strangers living there" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-hyperbole]])

# all the Athenians

"Athenians" are people from Athens, a city near the coast below Macedonia (present day Greece). (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/translate-names]])

# the strangers

"the foreigners"

# spent their time in nothing but either telling or listening

Here "time" is spoken of as if it were an object that a person could spend. AT: "used their time doing nothing but either telling or listening" or "were always doing nothing but telling or listening" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metaphor]])

# spent their time in nothing but either telling or listening

The phrase "spent their time in nothing" is an exaggeration. AT: "did not do much but tell or listen" or "spent much of their time telling or listening" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-hyperbole]])

# telling or listening about something new

"discussing new philosophical ideas" or "talking about what was new to them"

# translationWords

* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/paul]]