# Connecting Statement:

Paul finishes his speech to the philosophers in the Areopagus, which he began in [Acts 17:22](./22.md).

# General Information:

Here the word "he" refers to God.

# Therefore

This word marks a statement that is said because of what was said previously.

# God overlooked the times of ignorance

"God decided not to punish people during the time of ignorance"

# times of ignorance

This refers to the time before God fully revealed himself through Jesus Christ and before people truly knew how to obey God.

# all men

This means all people whether male or female. AT: "all people" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-gendernotations]])

# when he will judge the world in righteousness by the man he has chosen

"when the man he has chosen will judge the world in righteousness"

# he will judge the world

Here "world" refers to the people. AT: "he will judge all people" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metonymy]])

# in righteousness

"justly" or "fairly"

# God has given proof of this man

"God has demonstrated his choice of this man"

# from the dead

From among all those who have died. This expression describes all dead people together in the underworld. To come back from among them speaks of becoming alive again.

# translationWords

* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/god]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/command]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/repent]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/judge]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/world]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/righteous]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/raise]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/death]]