# those who were once enlightened

Understanding is spoken of as if it were illumination. AT: "those who once understood the message about Christ" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metaphor]])

# who tasted the heavenly gift

Experiencing salvation is spoken of as if it were tasting food. AT: "who experienced God's saving power" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metaphor]])

# who were sharers of the Holy Spirit

The Holy Spirit, who comes to believers, is spoken of as if he were an object that people could share. AT: "who received the Holy Spirit" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metaphor]])

# who tasted God's good word

Learning God's message is spoken of as if it were tasting food. AT: "who learned God's good message" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metaphor]])

# the powers of the age to come

This means the power of God when his kingdom is fully present in all the world. In this sense, "the powers" refer to God himself, who holds all power. AT: "learned how God will work powerfully in the future" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metonymy]])

# who then fell away

Losing all faithfulness to God is spoken of as if it were a physical fall. AT: "who then stopped believing in God" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metaphor]])

# it is impossible to restore them again to repentance

"it is impossible to bring them back to repent again"

# they crucify the Son of God for themselves again

When people turn away from God, it is as though they crucify Jesus again. AT: "it is like they crucify for themselves the very Son of God again" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metaphor]])

# Son of God

This is an important title for Jesus that describes his relationship to God. (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/guidelines-sonofgodprinciples]])

# translationWords

* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/heaven]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/holyspirit]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/wordofgod]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/age]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/repent]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/crucify]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/sonofgod]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/mock]]