# Connecting Statement:

Having finished his third warning and encouragement to the believers, the writer of Hebrews continues his comparison of Jesus as priest to Melchizedek as priest.

# as a secure and reliable anchor of our souls

Just as an anchor keeps a boat from drifting in the water, Jesus keeps us secure in God's presence. AT: "that causes us to live securely in God's presence" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metaphor]])

# a secure and reliable anchor

Here the words "secure" and "reliable" mean basically the same thing and emphasize the complete reliability of the anchor. AT: "a completely reliable anchor" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-doublet]])

# confidence that enters into the inner place behind the curtain

Confidence is spoken of as if it were a person who could go into the most holy place of the temple. (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-personification]])

# the inner place

This was the most holy place in the temple. It was thought to be the place where God was most intensely present among his people. In this passage, this place stands for heaven and God's throne room. (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metaphor]])

# as a forerunner for us

The fact that Jesus died and rose again, and that he is now with God the Father, indicate that we who believe in him will experience the same things. Jesus is spoken of here as if he were someone who runs ahead of us and that we are running after him. AT: "as one who goes before us" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metaphor]])

# after the manner of Melchizedek

This means that Christ as a priest has things in common with Melchizedek as a priest. AT: "in the same way that Melchizedek was a priest"

# translationWords

* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/confidence]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/soul]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/curtain]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/jesus]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/highpriest]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/forever]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/melchizedek]]