# General Information:

Parallelism is common in Hebrew poetry. (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/writing-poetry]] and [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-parallelism]])

# General Information:

This psalm is a prayer for help.

# In you, Yahweh, I take refuge

Going to Yahweh for protection is spoken of as taking refuge in him. AT: "go to you, Yahweh, for protection" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metaphor]])

# let me never be put to shame

This can be stated in active form. See how "do not let me be humiliated" is translated in [Psalms 25:2](../025/001.md). AT: "never let my enemies put me to shame" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-activepassive]])

# make me safe in your righteousness

Possible meanings are 1) "make me safe because you always do what is right" or 2) "make me safe as I do what you want me to do" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-idiom]])

# turn your ear to me

Here "your ear" refers to God's willingness to hear someone who prays to him. See how this is translated in [Psalms 17:6](../017/006.md). AT: "pay attention to me" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metonymy]])

# Be to me a rock for refuge

The psalmist requests that Yahweh make him as safe as he would be if he were hiding in a large rock or cliff where his enemies could not find him. (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metaphor]])

# rock ... rock

These are hills or mountains, not rocks one can hold in one's hand.

# you have given a command

"you have commanded your angels"

# save me

"keep me safe"

# you are my rock and my fortress

The psalmist believes that Yahweh will protect him and make him as safe as if he were hiding on top of a large mountain or inside a man-made fortress. (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metaphor]])