# Absalom pressed David

Here the author speaks of Absalom urging David to let Amnon come as if he were putting physical pressure on him. AT: "Absalom begged David for Amnon to come" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metaphor]])

# Do not be afraid

This implies that they do not need to be afraid of the consequences for killing Amnon. This can be stated clearly. AT: "Do not be afraid that you will be blamed for killing the king's son" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-explicit]])

# Have I not commanded you?

Absalom asks this rhetorical question to emphasize that he will be blamed for killing Amnon because he is commanding them. This can be written as a statement. AT: "I have commanded you to do this." or "I will be the one guilty for killing him because I have commanded you to do this." (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-rquestion]] and [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-explicit]])

# not commanded you

What Absalom has commanded them to do may be stated in the question. AT: "not commanded you to kill him" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-ellipsis]])

# all the king's sons

This does not include Absalom and Amnon who is dead. It includes the rest of the sons that the king allowed to go to the celebration. AT: "the rest of the king's sons" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-synecdoche]])

# every man

This refers to the king's sons who left the celebration.

# translationWords

* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/command]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/drunk]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/wine]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/fear]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/raise]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/donkey]]