# why do you judge your brother? And you, why do you despise your brother?

By using these questions, Paul is demonstrating how he might need to scold individuals among his readers. AT: "it is wrong for you to judge your brother, and it is wrong for you to despise your brother!" or "stop judging and despising your brother!" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-you]])

# brother

Here this means a fellow Christian, male or female.

# For we will all stand before the judgment seat of God

The "judgment seat" refers to God's authority to judge. AT: "For God will judge us all" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metonymy]])

# For it is written

You can translate this in an active form. AT: "For someone has written in the Scriptures:" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-activepassive]])

# As I live

This phrase is used to start an oath or solemn promise. AT: "You can be certain that this is true" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-explicit]])

# to me every knee will bend, and every tongue will give praise to God

Paul uses the words "knee" and "tongue" to refer to the whole person. Also, the Lord uses the word "God" to refer to himself. AT: "every person will bow and give praise to me" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-synecdoche]] and [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-123person]])

# translationWords

* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/judge]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/brother]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/written]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/lord]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/tongue]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/praise]]