# Mordecai neither rose up

Rising was a sign of respect. Mordecai did not give Haman special respect. (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/translate-symaction]])

# he was filled with rage

Being "filled with rage" represents being very angry. AT: he was extremely angry" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metaphor]])

# Nevertheless

This can be translated with a phrase. "Even though he was so angry"

# Haman restrained himself

Restraining himself represents refusing to do something that he wanted very much to do. Haman wanted to show Mordecai that he was very angry. AT: "Haman refused to show how angry he was" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metaphor]])

# Zeresh

This is a woman's name. (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/translate-names]])

# Haman recounted to them the splendor of his riches

"Splendor" and "riches" are both abstract nouns. AT: "Haman told them about how great his wealth was" or "Haman told them about the many great things he owned" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-abstractnouns]])

# all the promotions by which the king honored him

The abstract noun "promotion" can be expressed with the verb "promote." It means that the king gave him more important work. AT: "How the king had promoted him many times and honored him" or "how the king had honored him many times by giving him more important work" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-abstractnouns]])

# how he had advanced above all the officials and the servants of the king

Advancing above people represents becoming more important than them. AT: "how he had become more important than all the officials and the servants of the king" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metaphor]])

# translationWords

* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/joy]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/heart]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/mordecai]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/gate]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/fear]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/servant]]