# General Information:

After Paul's greeting to the church in Corinth, he writes about suffering and comfort through Jesus Christ. Timothy is with him as well.

# General Information:

The word "you" throughout this letter refers to the people of the church in Corinth and to the rest of the Christians in that area. Possibly Timothy writes on parchment paper the words that Paul says.

# Paul ... to the church of God that is in Corinth

Your language may have a particular way of introducing the author of a letter and its intended audience. AT: "I, Paul ... wrote this letter to you, the church of God that is in Corinth"

# Timothy our brother

This indicates that both Paul and the Corinthians knew Timothy and considered him to be their spiritual brother.

# Achaia

This is the name of a Roman province in the southern part of modern-day Greece. (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/translate-names]])

# May grace be to you and peace

This is a common greeting that Paul uses in his letters.

# translationWords

* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/paul]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/apostle]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/jesus]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/willofgod]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/timothy]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/brother]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/church]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/god]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/corinth]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/believer]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/grace]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/peace]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/godthefather]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/lordgod]]