# inner parts

**the inner parts** - This is the stomach and intestines. See how you translated this in [Leviticus 1:9](../01/07.md).

# liver ... kidneys

See how you translated these words in [Leviticus 3:4](../03/03.md).

# right thigh

The thigh is the upper part of the leg above the knee. See how you translated this in [Leviticus 7:32](../07/31.md).

# the basket of bread without yeast that was before Yahweh

This does not refer to the location of the basket of bread. It means this is the bread that Moses had dedicated to Yahweh.

# put it all in the hands of Aaron and in the hands of his sons

Here "hands" represents the whole person. AT: "gave it all to Aaron and his sons" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-synecdoche]])

# waved them before Yahweh as a wave offering

It is implied that Aaron and his sons presented the offering. The full meaning of this statement can be made clear. AT: "they waved them before Yahweh as a wave offering" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-explicit]])

# waved them

This is a symbolic action that dedicates the offering to Yahweh. (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/translate-symaction]])

# translationWords

* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/basket]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/bread]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/yeast]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/yahweh]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/oil]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/hand]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/aaron]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/son]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/raise]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/sacrifice]]