# I said to the arrogant ... and to the wicked

The words "the arrogant" and "the wicked" are nominal adjectives that can be translated with nouns. The verb for the second phrase may be supplied from the first. AT: "I said to the arrogant people ... and I said to the wicked people" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-nominaladj]] and [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-ellipsis]])

# I said

Possible meanings are 1) God is speaking or 2) Asaph is speaking.

# Do not be arrogant ... Do not lift ... Do not lift up your ... do not speak

The speaker is speaking to many wicked people, so these forms are all plural. (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-pronouns]])

# Do not lift up the horn

Asaph speaks of wicked people as if they were animals with horns on their heads, stretching their necks and holding their heads high to frighten other animals. AT: "Do not be confident" or "Do not boast about how strong you are" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metaphor]])

# Do not lift up your horn to the heights

Asaph speaks of wicked people as if they were animals with horns on their heads, stretching their necks and holding their heads as high as they can to frighten other animals. AT: "Be especially sure not to boast that you are greater than God" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metaphor]])

# with an insolent neck

Asaph speaks of wicked people who defy or challenge God as if they were animals with horns on their heads, stretching their necks and holding their heads high to frighten other animals. AT: "arrogantly" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-idiom]] and [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metaphor]])

# It is not from the east ... that lifting up comes

Asaph speaks of the one who lifts up as if he were the action of lifting up. He also speaks of God giving strength and honor to a person as if God were physically lifting that person up. AT: "The one who will lift you up will not be someone who comes from the east" or "The one who will make you strong and have people honor you will not be someone who comes from the east" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metonymy]])