# General Information:

Paul gives the believers some final instructions about working and not being idle.

# Now

Paul uses this word to mark a change in topic.

# brothers

Here "brothers" means fellow Christians, including both men and women. AT: "brothers and sisters" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-gendernotations]])

# in the name of our Lord Jesus Christ

"Name" here is a metonym for the person of Jesus Christ. AT: "as if our Lord Jesus Christ himself were speaking" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metonomy]])

# our Lord

Here "our" refers to all believers. (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-inclusive]])

# to imitate us

"to act the way that my fellow workers and I act"

# We did not live among you as those who had no discipline

Paul uses a double negative to emphasize the positive. This can be stated as a positive. AT: "We lived among you as those who had much discipline" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-doublenegatives]])

# we worked night and day

"we worked during the night and during the day." Here "night" and "day" are a merism and they mean "all the time." AT: "we worked all the time" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-merism]])

# in difficult labor and hardship

Paul emphasizes how hard his circumstances were. Difficult labor implies work that requires great effort. Hardship implies they endured pain and suffering. AT: "in very difficult circumstances" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-doublet]])

# We did this not because we have no authority. Instead, we did

Paul uses a double negative to emphasize the positive. This can be stated as a positive. AT: "We certainly have the right to receive food from you, but instead we worked for our food" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-doublenegatives]])

# translationWords

* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/brother]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/name]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/lord]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/jesus]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/tradition]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/labor]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/burden]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/authority]]