# General Information:

There is an apparent shift in authorship beginning here. Chapters 1-7 were written as if the author was writing about Ezra. Chapter 8 was written as if the author was Ezra.

# General Information:

Verses 2-14 are a list of leaders and their ancestors. All of them are men. (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/translate-names]])

# Of the descendants of Phinehas, Gershom

This is the first item in the list. It can be written with the verb "was." AT: "The leader of the descendants of Phinehas was Gershom" or "Gershom was the leader of the descendants of Phinehas"

# Of the descendants of Ithamar, Daniel

This is the second item in the list. It can be written with the verb "was." AT: "The leader of the descendants of Ithamar was Daniel" or "Daniel was the leader of the descendants of Ithamar"

# Parosh

See how you translated this man's name in [Esra 2:03](../02/03.md).

# Of the descendants of David, Hattush, who was ... Parosh; and Zechariah

This is the third item in the list. It can be written with the verb "were." AT: "The leaders of the descendants of David were Hattush who was ... Parosh; and Zechariah" or "The leaders of the descendants of David were Hattush and Zechariah. Hattush was from ... Parosh"

# Hattush, who was of the descendants of Shecaniah, who was from the descendants of Parosh

This can be written as a separate sentence after "Zechariah." AT: "Hatush was a descendant of Shecaniah, who was a descendant of Parosh"

# with him there were 150 males listed in the record of his genealogy

"with Zechariah there were 150 males listed in the record of his genealogy"

# 150 males

"one hundred and fifty males" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/translate-numbers]])

# translationWords

* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/babylon]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/reign]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/king]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/artaxerxes]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/descendant]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/phinehas]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/david]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/zechariahot]]