# the Ahava Canal

This is the name of the canal that flows to the place called Ahava. See how you translated Ahava and canal in [Esra 8:15](./15.md). (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/translate-names]])

# to seek a straight path from him for us, our little ones, and all our possessions

The word "seek" represents asking God to do something for them. Here a "straight path" represents safety while they travel. AT: "to ask God to give us, our little ones, and all our possessions safety while we travel" or "to ask God to protect us, our little ones, and all our possessions while we travel" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metaphor]])

# The hand of our God is on all who seek him

The hand of God being on people is a metonym for God helping people. Seeking God is a metaphor for serving him. AT: "God helps all who serve him" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metonymy]] and [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metaphor]])

# but his might and wrath are on all who forget him

God's might and wrath being on people is a metonym for him punishing people. Forgetting God is a metaphor for refusing to serve him. AT: "but he punishes all who refuse to serve him" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metonymy]] and [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metaphor]])

# So we fasted and sought God about this

Here seeking God is a metaphor for asking God to do something for them. AT: "So we fasted and asked God to help us" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metaphor]])

# translationWords

* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/proclaim]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/fast]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/humble]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/possess]]