# General Information:

The writer continues to use parallelism in each of these verses, conveying a single idea using two different statements to emphasize that his personal suffering is part of the universal suffering which all people experience. (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-parallelism]])

# Does not man have hard labor on earth?

Job poses this negative question to emphasize his awareness that all people experience hard work. It can be translated as a positive statement. AT: "There is hard labor for every person on earth." (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-rquestion]])

# on earth

This is a generalization that means for the time people are living on the earth. AT: "while he lives on the earth" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-hyperbole]])

# Are not his days like the days of a hired man?

Job poses this negative question to emphasize his awareness that all people struggle in life. AT: "And their days are like the days of a hired man." (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-rquestion]] and [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-simile]])

# Like a slave ... like a hired man ... so I have been ... given trouble-filled nights

Job compares his misery and trouble to that of the slave and hired man. (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-simile]])

# the shadows of evening

"cool shade." The implied information is that the shadows of evening provide coolness and shade from the sun (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-explicit]])

# a hired man

"a day laborer." This is a man who worked jobs one day at a time and was paid at the end of every day.

# looks for his wages

"waits for his pay"

# so I have been made to endure months of misery; I have been given trouble-filled nights

This can be translated in active form. AT: "so I endure months of misery; I get trouble-filled nights" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-activepassive]])

# months of misery

The abstract noun "misery" can be translated as the adjective "miserable." AT: "miserable months" or "empty months" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-explicit]])

# translationWords

* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/labor]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/earth]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/servant]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/shadow]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/endure]]