# General Information:

Jeremiah continues speaking with King Zedekiah.

# All the women who are left ... will be brought out to the officials of the king of Babylon

The reader should understand that the officials will take these women as slaves. AT: "Soldiers will bring all the women who are left ... out to the officials of the king of Babylon" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-activepassive]])

# You have been deceived by your friends

This can be translated in active form. AT: "Your friends have deceived you" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-activepassive]])

# Your feet are now sunk into the mud

The king is now helpless. (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metaphor]])

# For all of your wives and children will be brought out to the Chaldeans

The reader should understand that the officials will take these people as slaves. AT: "Soldiers will bring your wives and children out to the Chaldeans" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-activepassive]])

# will not escape from their hand

The word "hand" is a metonym for the power or control that the hand exercises. AT: "will not escape from their power" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metonymy]])

# You will be captured by the hand of the king of Babylon, and this city will be burned

The word "hand" is a metonym for the power or control that the hand exercises. This can be translated in active form. The reader should probably understand that many people will help the king do this. AT: "The army of the king of Babylon will capture you and will burn the city" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metonymy]] and [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-activepassive]])

# translationWords

* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/deceive]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/ruin]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/names/chaldeans]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/hand]]