# Now Naomi had a relative of her husband

This phrase introduces new information before the story continues. Your language may have a way to introduce new information. (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/writing-background]])

# a worthy man

"a prominent, wealthy man." This means that Boaz was prosperous and well known in his community, with a good reputation.

# Ruth, the Moabite woman

Here the story resumes. You need to see how your language restarts a story after a break.

# the Moabite woman

This is another way of saying the woman was from the country or tribe of Moab.

# glean what remains among the ears of grain

"gather kernels of grain left behind by the harvesters" or "pick up kernels of grain left behind by the harvesters"

# ears

"heads" or "stalks." The "ears" are the parts of a grain plant that contain the grain.

# in whose eyes I will find favor

The phrase "found favor" is an idiom which means to be approved of by someone. Ruth speaks of gaining someone's favor as gaining permission or approval. Also, the eyes represent seeing, and seeing represents thoughts and judgement. AT: "who will grant me permission to glean" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-idiom]] and [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metaphor]] and [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metonymy]])

# daughter

Ruth was caring for Naomi as if she were her own mother. Make sure it is possible in your language to use this word for someone who is not an actual daughter.

# translationWords

* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/kin]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/names/boaz]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/names/ruth]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/names/moab]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/glean]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/grain]]