# she bowed down before Boaz, touching her head to the ground

These are acts of respect and reverence. She was showing honor to Boaz out of gratefulness for what he had done for her. It was also a posture of humility.

# Why have I found such favor ... a foreigner?

Ruth is asking a real question.

# foreigner

Ruth had pledged her loyalty to the God of Israel in private, but she was known publicly as "the Moabitess."

# It has been reported to me

This can be stated in active form. AT: "People have reported to me" or "People have told me" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-activepassive]])

# to come to a people

Boaz is referring to Ruth coming to dwell with Naomi in a village and community, a country, and religion she did not know. (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metonymy]])

# reward you

"repay you" or "pay you back"

# for your deed

This is an act of faith, choosing to live with Naomi in Bethlehem and trusting Naomi's God.

# May you receive full payment from Yahweh

This is a poetic expression that is very similar to the previous sentence. AT: "May Yahweh give back to you even more than you have given" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-parallelism]])

# under whose wings you have found refuge

Boaz uses the picture of a mother bird gathering her chicks under her wings to protect them, in order to describe God's protection for those who trust in him. AT: "in whose safe care you have placed yourself" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metaphor]])

# translationWords

* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/boaz]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/report]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/death]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/peoplegroup]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/yahweh]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/receive]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/god]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/israel]]