# General Information:

Jesus explains to his disciples why he teaches with parables.

# You have been given the privilege of understanding mysteries of the kingdom of heaven, but to them it is not given

This can be translated with the active form and with implied information expressed clearly. AT: "God has given you the privilege of understanding mysteries of the kingdom of heaven, but God has not given it to these people" or "God has made you able to understand mysteries of the kingdom of heaven, but he has not enabled these people to understand" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-activepassive]] and [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-explicit]])

# You have been given the privilege

The word "You" is plural here and refers to the disciples. (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-you]])

# mysteries of the kingdom of heaven

Here "kingdom of heaven" refers to God's rule. The phrase "kingdom of heaven" occurs only in the book of Matthew. If possible, try to keep it in your translation. AT: "the secrets about our God in heaven and his rule" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metonymy]])

# whoever has

"whoever has understanding" or "whoever receives what I teach"

# will be given more

This can be translated in active form. AT: "God will give him more understanding" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-activepassive]])

# whoever does not have

"whoever does not have understanding" or "whoever does not receive what I teach"

# even what he has will be taken away from him

This can be stated in active form. AT: "God will take away even what he has" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-activepassive]])

# translationWords

* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/disciple]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/jesus]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/parable]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/understand]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/mystery]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/kingdomofgod]]