# Connecting Statement:

Jesus continues to explain to his disciples the parable about a person who sows seeds.

# What was sown

This refers to seed that was sown or that fell. AT: "The seed that was sown" or "The seed that fell" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-explicit]])

# What was sown among the thorn plants

"the ground with the thorn plants where seed was sown"

# this is the person

"this represents the person"

# the word

Here "the word" represents God's message. AT: "the message" or "God's teaching" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metonymy]])

# the cares of the world and the deceitfulness of riches choke the word

Jesus speaks about the cares of the world and the deceitfulness of riches distracting a person from obeying God's word as if they were weeds that could wind around a plant and keep it from growing. AT: "as weeds prevent good plants from growing, the cares of the world and the deceitfulness of riches keep this person from listening to God's word" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metaphor]])

# cares of the world

"the things in this world that people worry about"

# the deceitfulness of riches

Jesus describes "riches" as if it were a person who could deceive someone. This means people think having more money will make them happy, but it will not. AT: "the love of money" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-personification]])

# he becomes unfruitful

The person is spoken of as if he were a plant. Being unfruitful represents being unproductive. AT: "he becomes unproductive" or "he does not do what God wants" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metaphor]])

# What was sown on the good soil

"The good soil where seeds were sown"

# He bears fruit and makes a crop

The person is spoken of as if he were a plant. AT: "Like a healthy plant that bears a crop of fruit, he is productive" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metaphor]])

# yielding one hundred times as much as was planted, some sixty, and some thirty times as much

The phrase "as much as was planted" is understood following each of these numbers. See how you translated this in [Matthew 13:8](./07.md). AT: "Some people produce 100 times as much as was planted, some produce 60 times as much, and some produce 30 times as much" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-ellipsis]] and [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/translate-numbers]])

# translationWords

* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/sow]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/thorn]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/word]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/world]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/deceive]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/fruit]]