# Connecting Statement:

Jesus finishes explaining to his disciples the parable of the field with both wheat and weeds.

# Therefore, as the weeds are gathered up and burned with fire

This can be translated in active form. AT: "Therefore, as people gather up weeds and burn them in the fire" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-activepassive]])

# end of the world

"end of the age"

# The Son of Man will send out his angels

Here Jesus is speaking of himself. AT: "I, the Son of Man, will send out my angels" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-123person]])

# those who commit iniquity

"those who are lawless" or "evil people"

# furnace of fire

This is a metaphor for the fires of hell. If the term "furnace" is not known, "oven" can be used. AT: "fiery furnace" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metaphor]])

# weeping and grinding of teeth

This represents extreme sadness and suffering. See how you translated this in [Matthew 8:12](../08/11.md).

# shine like the sun

If this simile is not understandable in your language, you can use: "be as easy to see as the sun." (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-simile]])

# Father

This is an important title for God. (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/guidelines-sonofgodprinciples]])

# He who has ears

This is a way of referring to everyone there who was hearing what Jesus was saying. See how you translated this in [Matthew 11:15](../11/13.md). AT: "Whoever who can hear me" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-idiom]])

# listen

Here "listen" represents paying attention. See how you translated this in [Matthew 11:15](../11/13.md). AT: "pay attention to what I am saying" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metonymy]])

# translationWords

* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/fire]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/world]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/sonofman]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/angel]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/kingdom]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/sin]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/commit]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/iniquity]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/gnashteeth]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/righteous]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/godthefather]]