# Connecting Statement:

Jesus describes the kingdom of heaven by telling a parable about a person who manages a household. This is the end of the part of the story about Jesus teaching the crowds about the kingdom of heaven through using parables.

# Have you understood all these things?" The disciples said to him, "Yes."

If necessary, both direct quotations can be translated as indirect quotations. AT: "Jesus asked them if they had understood all this, and they said that they did understand" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-quotations]])

# has become a disciple to the kingdom of heaven

Here "kingdom of heaven" refers to God's rule as king. The phrase "kingdom of heaven" is used only in the book of Matthew. If possible, keep "heaven" in your translation. AT: "has learned the truth about our God in heaven, who is king" or "has submitted himself to God's rule" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metonymy]])

# is like a man who is the owner of a house, who draws out old and new things from his treasure

Jesus speaks another parable. He compares scribes, who know very well the scriptures that Moses and the prophets wrote, and who also now accept Jesus' teachings, to a house owner who uses both old and new treasures. (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-parables]])

# treasure

A treasure is a very valuable and precious thing or a collection of things. Here it may refer to the place where these things are stored, the "treasury" or "storeroom."

# Then it came about that when

This phrase shifts the story from Jesus' teachings to what happened next. AT: "Then" or "After"

# translationWords

* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/disciple]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/jesus]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/scribe]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/kingdomofgod]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/parable]]