# General Information:

This is the beginning of a new part of the story that runs through [Matthew 17:27](../17/26.md), where the writer tells of continued opposition to Jesus' ministry and teaching about the kingdom of heaven. Here, the people of Jesus' home town reject him.

# his own region

"his hometown." This refers to the town of Nazareth, where Jesus grew up. (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-explicit]])

# in their synagogue

The pronoun "their" is referring to the people of the region.

# they were astonished

"they were amazed"

# Where does this man get his wisdom and these miracles from?

The people believed that Jesus was just an ordinary man. They use this question to express their amazement that he was so wise and was able to do miracles. AT: "How can an ordinary man like this be so wise and do such great miracles?" or "It is strange that he is able to speak with such wisdom and do these miracles!" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-explicit]] and [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-rquestion]])

# Is not this man the carpenter's son? Is not his mother called Mary? Are not his brothers James, Joseph, Simon, and Judas? Are not all his sisters with us?

The crowd uses these questions to express their belief that they know who Jesus is and that he is just an ordinary man. AT: "He is just the son of a carpenter. We know his mother Mary, and his brothers James, Joseph, Simon, and Judas. And all his sisters are with us, too." (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-rquestion]])

# the carpenter's son

A carpenter is someone who makes things with wood or stone. If "carpenter" is not known, "builder" can be used.

# Where did he get all these things?

The crowd uses this question to show their understanding that Jesus must have gotten his abilities from somewhere. They were probably expressing their doubt that he got his abilities from God. AT: "He must have gotten his ability to do these things from somewhere!" or "We do not know where he got these abilities!" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-rquestion]])

# all these things

This refers to Jesus' wisdom and ability to do miracles.

# translationWords

* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/jesus]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/synagogue]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/amazed]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/wise]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/miracle]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/names/mary]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/names/jamesbrotherofjesus]]