# out of your own house

Here David's "house" refers to his family. AT: "from among your own family" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metonymy]])

# Before your own eyes

Here David is referred to by his eyes to emphasize what he would see. AT: "While you are watching" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-synecdoche]])

# in broad daylight

"in full daylight." The idea of doing something "openly" or in a way that people are fully aware of what is happening is often spoken about as being done in the "daylight." AT: "openly" or "and everyone will see what is happening" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metaphor]])

# committed your sin

"sinned"

# before all Israel

This phrase speaks of the people of Israel knowing about what has happened to his wives as if they all actually witnessed it happening. AT: "before all the people of Israel" or "and all the people of Israel will know about it" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metonymy]] and [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metaphor]])

# passed over

Yahweh has forgiven David of his sin. This is spoken of here as Yahweh passing over his sin as if it were something that he walked by and disregarded. AT: "forgiven" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metaphor]])

# You will not be killed

This can be stated in active form. Sometimes men died because of their sins, but he will not die because of his sin with the woman. This can be stated clearly. AT: "You will not die" or "you will not die because of this sin" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-activepassive]] and [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-explicit]])