# If something seems impossible in the eyes of

The eyes represent seeing, and seeing represents thoughts or judgment. AT: "If something does not appear to be possible to" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metaphor]])

# the remnant of this people

"the people of Judah who survive"

# should it also seem impossible in my eyes?

This question expects a negative answer in order to persuade his people to trust in his promises. It can be translated as a statement. AT: "it will surely be possible for me!" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-rquestion]])

# in my eyes

The eyes represent seeing, and seeing represents thoughts or judgment. AT: "to me" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metaphor]])

# this is Yahweh's declaration

Yahweh speaks of himself by name to express the certainty of what he is declaring. See how you translated this in [Zechariah 1:4](../01/04.md). AT: "this is what Yahweh has declared" or "this is what I, Yahweh, have declared" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-123person]])

# I am about to rescue my people

The implied information is that the people are in exile. "I am about to rescue my people of Judah who went into exile" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-explicit]])

# from the land of the sunrise and from the land of the setting sun

Possible meanings are 1) this is a poetic way of expressing specific countries to which the people were exiled. AT: "From the land to the east and from the land to the west" or 2) this is a merism that means from all directions. AT: "from all lands in every direction" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-merism]])

# I will be their God in truth and in righteousness

This can be rewritten to remove the abstract nouns "truth" and "righteousness." AT: "I will be their God. I will be faithful to them and act toward them in a just manner" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-abstractnouns]])