# You were an example to the other nations of a curse

The implied information is that the way Yahweh had allowed the temple to be destroyed and his people to be exiled had been used by other nations as an example of what it meant to be cursed by Yahweh. AT: "When I punished you, the other nations learned what happens when I curse a people" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-explicit]])

# house of Judah and house of Israel

The word "house" is a metonym for the family that lives in the house. In this case it refers to the people in the kingdoms of Judah and Israel. AT: "people of Judah and Israel" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metonymy]])

# you will be a blessing

Possible meanings are 1) the implied information is that the people of Judah and Israel would be a blessing to the nations around them. AT: "you will be a blessing to the surrounding nations" or 2) the implied information is that the nations around them would see what it meant to be blessed by Yahweh. AT: when I bless you, the other nations will learn what happens when I bless a people" or 3) Yahweh will bless the people of Judah and Israel. AT: "I will give you many good things" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-explicit]])

# let your hands be strong

This is an idiom that means to be courageous for the work. AT: "be strong and courageous" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-idiom]])

# do harm to you

"punish you"

# provoked my anger

"angered me"

# did not relent

"did not decide to punish them less"

# Jerusalem

This is a metonym for the people of Jerusalem. AT: "the people of Jerusalem" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metonymy]])

# house of Judah and house of Israel

The word "house" is a metonym for the family that lives in the house. In this case it refers to the people in the kingdom of Judah. AT: "people of Judah" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metonymy]])