# If it pleases the king

"If what I ask for pleases the king"

# if I have found favor in your eyes

Here "found favor" is an idiom that means be approved of or that he is pleased with her. Here "eyes" are a metonym for sight, and  sight is a metaphor representing his evaluation. AT: "if you have evaluated me and approve" or "if you are pleased with me" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-idiom]] and [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metonymy]] and [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metaphor]])

# if the thing seems right before the king

"Before the king" here is a metaphor representing his evaluation. AT: "if what I ask for seems right in the king's evaluation" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metaphor]])

# I am pleasing in your eyes

Here "your eyes" is a metonym for sight, and sight is a metaphor representing his evaluation. AT: "if you evaluate me and I please you" or "if you are pleased with me" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metonymy]] and [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metaphor]])

# revoke

take back and make of no effect

# Hammedatha

This is the name of a man. (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/translate-names]])

# provinces

A province is a large area into which some countries are divided for the purposes of government. See how you translated this in [Esther 1:1](../01/01.md).

# For how could I bear to see disaster fall on my people? How could I endure watching the destruction of my relatives?

Esther used these questions to show that that she would be extremely sad if her people were to be destroyed. AT: "I cannot bear to see disaster fall on the Jews. I cannot endure watching my relatives be killed." (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-rquestion]])

# translationWords

* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/favor]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/decree]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/written]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/jew]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/peoplegroup]]