# the king's scribes were called

This can be stated in active form. AT: "the king called his scribes." The reader should understand that the king probably told an official to go and bring the scribes back with him. The king probably did not call out with a loud voice to get them to come. (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-activepassive]] and [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-explicit]])

# the third month, which is the month of Sivan, on the twenty-third day of the month

"Sivan" is the name of the third month of the Hebrew calendar. The twenty-third day is near the middle of June on Western calendars. (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/translate-hebrewmonths]] and [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/translate-ordinal]] and [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/translate-names]])

# A decree was written

This can be stated in active form. AT: "They wrote a decree" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-activepassive]])

# 127 provinces

"one hundred and twenty-seven provinces" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/translate-numbers]])

# provinces

A "province" is a large area into which some countries are divided for the purposes of government. See how you translated this in in [Esther 1:1](../01/01.md).

# written in their own writing

"written in their own script." There are different writing systems around the world.

# translationWords

* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/scribe]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/call]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/biblicaltimemonth]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/decree]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/names/mordecai]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/province]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/governor]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/names/ethiopia]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/peoplegroup]]