# the city of Susa shouted and rejoiced

The "city" represents the people living in it. AT: "the people of the city of Susa shouted and rejoiced" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metonymy]])

# shouted and rejoiced

The word "rejoiced" tells how they shouted. AT: "shouted joyfully" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-hendiadys]])

# had light and gladness

Possible meanings are that 1) having light is a metaphor for being happy. AT: "were happy and glad" or 2) having light is metaphor for feeling prosperous and safe. AT: "felt safe and were glad" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metaphor]])

# honor

Possible meanings are that 1) other people honored the Jews. AT: "other people honored them" or 2) the Jews felt honored. AT: "they felt honored" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-explicit]])

# province

A "province" is a large area into which some countries are divided for the purposes of government. See how you translated this in [Esther 1:1](../01/01.md).

# wherever the king's decree reached

Reaching places represents going to places. AT: "wherever the king's men took his decree" or "wherever the king's decree was read" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metaphor]])

# holiday

"celebration"

# the fear of the Jews had fallen on them

Fear falling on people represents people becoming very afraid. AT: "they had become very afraid of the Jews" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metaphor]])

# translationWords

* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/royal]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/crown]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/gold]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/joy]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/peoplegroup]]