# Connecting Statement:

Paul summarizes how working together for God is supposed to be.

# General Information:

In verse 2, Paul quotes a portion from the prophet Isaiah.

# Working together

Paul is implying that he and Timothy are working with God. AT: "Working together with God" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-explicit]])

# we also urge you not to receive the grace of God in vain

Paul pleads with them to allow the grace of God to be effective in their lives. This can be stated in positive terms. AT: "we beg you to make use of the grace that you have received from God" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-doublenegatives]])

# For he says

"For God says." This introduces a quotation from the prophet Isaiah. AT: "For God says in scripture" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-explicit]])

# Look

The word "Look" here alerts us to pay attention to the surprising information that follows.

# We do not place a stumbling block in front of anyone

Paul speaks of anything that would prevent a person from trusting in Christ as if it were a physical object over which that person trips and falls. AT: "We do not want to do anything that will prevent people from believing our message" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metaphor]])

# we do not wish our ministry to be discredited

The word "discredited" refers to people speaking badly about Paul's ministry, and working against the message he proclaims. This can be stated in active form. AT: "we do not want anyone to be able to speak badly about our ministry" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-activepassive]])

# translationWords

* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/beg]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/receive]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/grace]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/god]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/favor]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/salvation]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/stumblingblock]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/minister]]