# General Information:

In verse 16, Paul paraphrases portions from several Old Testament prophets: Moses, Zechariah, Amos, and possibly others.

# Do not be tied together with unbelievers

This can be stated in positive terms. AT: "Only be tied together with believers" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-doublenegatives]])

# be tied together with

Paul speaks of working together toward a common purpose as if it were two animals tied together to pull a plow or cart. AT: "team up with" or "have a close relationship with" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metaphor]])

# For what association does righteousness have with lawlessness?

This is a rhetorical question that anticipates a negative answer. AT: "For righteousness can have no association with lawlessness" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-rquestion]])

# For what fellowship does light have with darkness?

Paul asks this question to emphasize that light and darkness cannot coexist since light dispels darkness. The words "light" and "darkness" refer to the moral and spiritual qualities of believers and unbelievers. AT: "Light can have no fellowship with darkness" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-rquestion]] and [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metaphor]])

# What agreement can Christ have with Beliar?

This is a rhetorical question that anticipates a negative answer. AT: "There is no agreement between Christ and Beliar" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-rquestion]])

# Beliar

This is another name for the devil. (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/translate-names]])

# Or what share does a believer have together with an unbeliever?

This is a rhetorical question that anticipates a negative answer. AT: "A believer shares nothing in common with an unbeliever" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-rquestion]])

# And what agreement is there between the temple of God and idols?

This is a rhetorical question that anticipates a negative answer. AT: "There is no agreement between the temple of God and idols" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-rquestion]])

# we are the temple of the living God

Paul refers to all Christians as forming a temple for God to dwell in. AT: "we are like a temple where the living God dwells" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metaphor]] and [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-inclusive]])

# I will dwell among them and walk among them.

This is an Old Testament quotation that says the same thing in two different ways. "Walk" is an idom for "live." AT: "I will be with them, being favorable toward them." (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-parallelism]]) (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-idiom]])

# translationWords

* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/believe]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/righteous]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/lawful]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/fellowship]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/christ]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/believer]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/temple]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/falsegod]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/life]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/peopleofgod]]