# Connecting Statement:

Though some were angry that the oil was used to anoint Jesus, Jesus says that the woman has anointed his body for burial before he will die.

# Simon the leper

This man previously had leprosy but was no longer ill. This is a different man than Simon Peter and Simon the Zealot. (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/translate-names]])

# he was reclining at the table

In Jesus' culture, when people gathered to eat, they reclined on their sides, propping themselves up on pillows beside a low table.

# alabaster jar

This is a jar made from alabaster. Alabaster was a very expensive yellow-white stone. AT: "beautiful white stone jar" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/translate-unknown]])

# of very costly liquid, which was pure nard

"that contained expensive, fragrant perfume called nard." Nard was a very expensive, sweet-smelling oil used to make perfume. (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/translate-unknown]])

# on his head

"on Jesus' head"

# What is the reason for this waste?

They asked this question to show that they disapproved of the woman pouring the perfume on Jesus. This can be written as a statement. AT: "It is terrible that she wasted that perfume!" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-rquestion]])

# This perfume could have been sold

Mark wants to show his readers that those present were more concerned about money. This can be stated in active form. AT: "We could have sold this perfume" or "She could have sold this perfume" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-activepassive]])

# three hundred denarii

"300 denarii." Denarii are Roman silver coins. (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/translate-bmoney]] and [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/translate-numbers]])

# given to the poor

The phrase "the poor" refers to poor people. This refers to giving the money from the sale of the perfume to the poor. AT: "the money given to poor people" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-ellipsis]] and [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-nominaladj]])

# translationWords

* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/names/bethany]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/leprosy]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/angry]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/rebuke]]