# bread

This was a flat loaf of unleavened bread, which was eaten as part of the Passover meal.

# broke it

This means that he broke the bread into pieces for the people to eat. AT: "broke it into pieces" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-explicit]])

# Take this. This is my body

"Take this bread. It is my body." Though most understand this to mean that the bread is a symbol of Jesus' body and that it is not actual flesh, it is best to translate this statement literally. (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/writing-symlanguage]])

# He took a cup

Here "cup" is a metonym for wine. AT: "He took the cup of wine" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-synecdoche]])

# This is my blood of the covenant, the blood that is poured out for many

The covenant is for the forgiveness of sins. This can be written more explicitly. AT: "This is my blood that confirms the covenant, the blood that is poured out so that many may receive the forgiveness of sins" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-explicit]])

# This is my blood

"This wine is my blood." Though most understand this to mean that the wine is a symbol of Jesus' blood and that it is not actual blood, it is best to translate this statement literally. (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/writing-symlanguage]])

# Truly I say to you

This indicates that the statement that follows is especially true and important. See how you translated this in [Mark 3:28](../03/28.md).

# fruit of the vine

"wine." This is a descriptive way to refer to wine.

# new

Possible meanings are 1) "again" or 2) "in a new way"