# Connecting Statement:

When Jesus answers that he is the Christ, the high priest and all of the leaders there condemn him as one who deserves to die.

# stood up among them

Jesus stands up in the middle of the angry crowd to speak to them. Translate this to show who was present when Jesus stood up to speak. AT: "stood up among the chief priests, scribes, and elders" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-explicit]])

# Have you no answer? What is it these men testify against you?

The chief priest is not asking Jesus for information about what the witnesses said. He is asking Jesus to prove what the witnesses said is wrong. AT: "Are you not going to reply? What do you say in response to the testimony these men are speaking against you?" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-explicit]])

# the Son of the Blessed

Here God is called "the Blessed." It is best to translate "Son" with the same word your language would naturally use to refer to a "son" of a human father. AT: "the Son of the Blessed One" or "the Son of God" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-nominaladj]] and [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/guidelines-sonofgodprinciples]])

# I am

This likely has a double meaning: 1) to respond to the high priest's question and 2) to call himself "I Am," which is what God called himself in the Old Testament.

# at the right hand of power

Here "power" refers to God. AT: "at the right hand of God, who is very powerful" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metonymy]])

# comes with the clouds of heaven

Here the clouds are described as accompanying Jesus when he returns. AT: "when he comes down through the clouds in the sky" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metaphor]])