# Connecting Statement:

Jesus goes to the city of Nain, where he heals a man who had died.

# Nain

the name of a city (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/translate-names]])

# behold, a man who had died

The word "behold" alerts us to the introduction of the dead man into the story. Your language may have a way of doing this. AT: "there was a dead man who" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/writing-participants]])

# a man who had died was being carried out

This can be stated in active form. AT: "people were carrying out of the city a man who had died" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-activepassive]])

# carried out, the only son of his mother (who was a widow), and a rather large crowd

"carried out. He was his mother's only son, and she was a widow. A rather large crowd." This is background information about the dead man and his mother. (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/writing-background]])

# widow

a woman whose husband has died and who has not remarried

# was deeply moved with compassion for her

"felt very sorry for her"

# he went up

"he went forward" or "he approached the dead man"

# the wooden frame on which they carried the body

This was a stretcher or bed used to move the body to the burial place. It did not have to be something in which the body was buried. Other translations may have the less common "bier" or "funeral couch."

# I say to you, arise

Jesus says this to emphasize that the young man needs to obey him. "Listen to me! Arise"

# The dead man

The man was not still dead; he was now alive. It may be necessary to state this clearly. AT: "The man who had been dead"

# translationWords

* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/jesus]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/disciple]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/gate]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/lord]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/compassion]]