# Connecting Statement:

Jesus begins to speak to the crowd about John the Baptist. He asks rhetorical questions to lead them to think about what John the Baptist is really like.

# What ... A reed shaken by the wind?

This expects a negative answer. "Did you go out to see a reed shaken by the wind? Of course not!" It can also be written as a statement. AT: "Surely you did not go out to see a reed being shaken by the wind!" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-rquestion]])

# A reed shaken by the wind

Possible meanings of this metaphor are 1) a person who easily changes his mind, as reeds are easily moved by the wind, or 2) a person who talks a lot but does not say anything important, as reeds rattle when the wind blows. (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metaphor]])

# But what ... A man dressed in soft clothes?

This also expects a negative answer, since John wore rough garments. "Did you go out to see a man dressed in soft clothes? Of course not!" This can also be written as a statement. AT: You certainly did not go out to see a man dressed in soft clothes!" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-rquestion]])

# dressed in soft clothes

This refers to expensive clothing. Normal clothing was rough. AT: "wearing expensive clothing" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-explicit]])

# kings' palaces

A palace is a large, expensive house that a king lives in.

# But what ... A prophet?

This leads to a positive answer. "Did you go out to see a prophet? Of course you did!" This can also be written as a statement. AT: "But you actually went out to see a prophet!" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-rquestion]])

# Yes, I say to you

Jesus says this to emphasize the importance of what he will say next.

# more than a prophet

This phrase means that John was indeed a prophet, but that he was even greater than a typical prophet. AT: "not just an ordinary prophet" or "much more important than a normal prophet"

# translationWords

* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/messenger]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/names/johnthebaptist]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/desert]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/reed]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/king]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/palace]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/prophet]]