# Connecting Statement:

A Pharisee invites Jesus to eat at his house.

# General Information:

It was a custom in that time for onlookers to attend dinners without eating.

# Now one of the Pharisees

The marks the beginning of a new part of the story and introduces the Pharisee into the story. (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/writing-newevent]] and [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/writing-participants]])

# reclined at the table to eat

"sat down at the table for the meal." It was the custom at a relaxed meal such as this dinner for men to eat while lying down comfortably around the table.

# Behold, there was a woman

The word "behold" alerts us to a new person in the story. Your language may have a way of doing this. (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/writing-participants]])

# who was a sinner

"who lived a sinful lifestyle" or "who had a reputation for living a sinful life." She may have been a prostitute.

# an alabaster jar

"a jar made of soft stone." Alabaster is a soft, white rock. People stored precious things in alabaster jars.

# of perfumed oil

"with perfume in it." The oil had something in it that made it smell nice. People rubbed it on themselves or sprinkled their clothing with it in order to smell nice.

# with the hair of her head

"with her hair"

# anointed them with perfumed oil

"poured perfume on them"

# translationWords

* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/pharisee]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/jesus]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/sin]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/anoint]]