# I have enough

The word "animals" or "property" is understood. AT: "I have enough animals" or "I have enough property" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-ellipsis]])

# if I have found favor in your eyes

The phrase "found favor" is an idiom which means to be approved of by someone. Here "eyes" are a metonym for sight, and  sight is a metaphor representing his evaluation. AT: "if you are pleased with me" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-idiom]] and [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metonymy]] and [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metaphor]])

# my gift from my hand

Here "hand" refers to Jacob. AT: "this gift that I am giving to you" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-synecdoche]])

# my hand, for indeed

This can be translated as a new sentence: "my hand. For certainly"

# I have seen your face, and it is like seeing the face of God

The meaning of this simile is unclear. Possible meanings are 1) Jacob is happy that Esau has forgiven him like God has forgiven him or 2) Jacob is amazed to see his brother again like he was amazed to see God or 3) Jacob is humbled to be in Esau's presence like he was humbled to be in God's presence. (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-simile]])

# I have seen your face

Here "face" stands for Esau. It may be best to translate as "face" because of the importance of the word "face" here with "face of God" and "face to face" in [Genesis 32:30](../32/29.md). (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-synecdoche]])

# that was brought to you

This can be stated in active form. AT: "that my servants brought to you" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-activepassive]])

# God has dealt graciously with me

"God has treated me very well" or "God has blessed me very much"

# Thus Jacob urged him, and Esau accepted it

It was customary to refuse a gift first, but then to accept the gift before the giver was offended.

# translationWords

* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/esau]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/brother]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/jacob]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/favor]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/hand]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/face]]