# Connecting Statement:

Paul gives some special instructions on how the deacons of the church and their wives should act and be.

# Deacons, likewise

"Deacons, like overseers"

# should be dignified, not double-talkers

Paul speaks about these people as if they were "double-talkers" or could say two things at once. He means the person says one thing but mean something else. AT: "should act properly and mean what they say" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metaphor]])

# They should keep the revealed truth of the faith

"They must continue to believe the true message God revealed to us and that we believe." This refers to a truth that had existed for some time but that God was showing to them at that moment. Paul speaks of true teaching about God as if it were an object that a person could keep with himself. (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metaphor]])

# the revealed truth

This can be stated in active form. AT: "the truth that God revealed" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-activepassive]])

# faith with a clean conscience

Paul speaks of a person's knowledge that he has done no wrong as if that knowledge or conscience were clean. AT: "faith, knowing they have tried their hardest to do what is right" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metaphor]])

# They should also be approved first

This can be stated in active form. AT: "Other believers should approve of them first" or "They should prove themselves first" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-activepassive]])

# be approved

This means other believers should evaluate those who want to be a deacon and determine if they are fit to serve in the church.