# But if I delay

"But in case I cannot go there soon" or "But if something prevents me for being there soon"

# so that you may know how to behave in the household of God

Paul speaks of the group of believers as if they were a family. Possible meanings are 1) Paul is referring only to Timothy's behavior in the church. Alternate translation: "so that you may know how to conduct yourself as a member of God's family" or 2) Paul is referring to the believers' in general. Alternate translation: "so that you all may know how to conduct yourselves as members of God's family" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metaphor]])

# household of God, which is the church of the living God

This phrase gives us information about "the household of God" rather than making a distinction between a household of God which is the church and one that is not the church. This can be stated as a new sentence. Alternate translation: "house hold of God. Those who belong to the family of God are the community of believers in the living God" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-distinguish]])

# which is the church of the living God, the pillar and support of the truth

Paul speaks of the believers bearing witness to the truth about Christ as if they were a pillar and a base supporting a building. This can be stated as a new sentence. Alternate translation: "which is the church of the living God. And, by keeping and teaching God's truth, these members of the church support the truth just as a pillar and base support a building" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metaphor]])

# the living God

Here this expression may be speaking of God as the one who gives life to all, as in the UDB.

