# It is undeniable

"No one can deny"

# that the revealed truth of godliness is great

This can be stated in active form. AT: "that the truth which God revealed is great" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-activepassive]])

# He appeared ... up in glory

This is most likely a song or poem that Paul is quoting. If your language has a way of indicating that this is poetry you could use it here. If not, you could translate this as regular prose rather than poetry. (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/writing-poetry]])

# He appeared

Here "He" is ambiguous. It could refers to "God" or to "Christ." It may be best to translate this as "He." If you must be more specific you could translate it as "Christ who is God" or "Christ."

# in the flesh

Paul uses "flesh" here to mean a human being. AT: "as a true human being" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metonymy]])

# was justified by the Spirit

This can be stated in active form. AT: "the Holy Spirit confirmed that he was who he said he was" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-activepassive]])

# was seen by angels

This can be stated in active form. AT: "the angels saw him" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-activepassive]])

# was proclaimed among nations

This can be stated in active form. AT: "people in many nations told others about him" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-activepassive]])

# was believed on in the world

This can be stated in active form. AT: "people in many parts of the world believed in him" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-activepassive]])

# was taken up in glory

This can be stated in active form. AT: "God the Father took him up to heaven in glory" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-activepassive]])

# in glory

This means he received power from God the Father and he is worthy of honor.

# translationWords

* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/reveal]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/true]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/godly]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/flesh]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/justify]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/holyspirit]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/angel]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/proclaim]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/nation]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/believe]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/glory]]