# General Information:

John begins to describe a vision of an angel throwing the devil into the bottomless pit.

# Then I saw

Here "I" refers to John.

# bottomless pit

This is an extremely deep narrow hole. Possible meanings are 1) the pit has no bottom; it continues to go down further forever or 2) the pit is so deep that it is as if it had no bottom. See how you translated this in [Revelation 9:1](../09/01.md).

# dragon

This was a large, fierce reptile, like a lizard. For Jewish people, it was a symbol of evil and chaos. (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/writing-symlanguage]])

# sealed it over him

The angel sealed the pit to keep anyone from opening it. AT: "sealed it to prevent anyone from opening it" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-explicit]])

# deceive the nations

Here "nations" is a metonym for the people of the earth. AT: "deceive the people-groups" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metonymy]])

# the thousand years

"1,000 years" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/translate-numbers]])

# he must be set free

This can be stated in active form. AT: "God will command the angel to free him" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-activepassive]])

# translationWords

* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/angel]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/heaven]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/pit]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/serpent]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/satan]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/seal]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/deceive]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/nation]]