# General Information:

Parallelism is common in Hebrew poetry. (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/writing-poetry]] and [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-parallelism]])

# A psalm of David

Possible meanings are 1) David wrote the psalm or 2) the psalm is about David or 3) the psalm is in the style of David's psalms.

# I cry out

"I call out loudly"

# my rock

This is a metaphor for strength. AT: "my strength" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metaphor]])

# do not ignore me

"do not be silent to me" or "do not leave me alone"

# I will join those who go down to the grave

People who die are spoken of as if they are going down into the grave. AT: "I will die like those who are in the grave" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metaphor]])

# Hear the sound of my pleading

Here "sound" refers to the content of his request. AT: "Hear my strong request" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metonymy]])

# I lift up my hands toward your most holy place

Lifting up hands is a symbol of worship. The writer is not worshiping the holy place, but Yahweh who lives in the holy place. (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/translate-symaction]])

# your most holy place

Possible meanings are 1) if David wrote this, then this refers to the tent that God told his people to set up so that they could worship him there, or 2) if a person wrote this after the time of David, then the writer is referring to the temple in Jerusalem.

# translationWords

* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/psalm]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/names/david]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/yahweh]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/cry]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/tomb]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/hand]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/holyplace]]