# Do not drag me away

God punishing people is spoken of as if he physically drags them away. In this metaphor Yahweh may be dragging them to prison, exile, or death. AT: "Do not remove me" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metaphor]])

# who speak peace with their neighbors

Here "neighbors" refers to people in general. AT: "who speak peacefully with other people"

# but have evil in their hearts

Here "hearts" represents a person's mind or thoughts. AT: "but are thinking something evil about them" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metonymy]])

# Give them what their deeds deserve ... repay them what their wickedness demands

These two phrases mean the same thing. They are used together to emphasize that they deserve for God to punish them. (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-parallelism]])

# the work of their hands

Here "hands" represent what the person has done. AT: "the things they have done" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metonymy]])

# render to them their due

"give them what they deserve"

# Because they do not understand ... never rebuild them

Possible meanings are 1) David is confident about what God will do to wicked people or 2) David is asking God to destroy the wicked people.

# they do not understand the deeds of Yahweh

It is implied that "do not understand" means they ignore or do not honor Yahweh's works. AT: "they do not regard with honor what Yahweh has done" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-explicit]])

# the work of his hands

Here "hands" represents what Yahweh has done or created. AT: "what he has created" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metonymy]])

# he will tear them down and never rebuild them

The punishment of the wicked people is spoken of as if they were a building or a city that God would destroy. (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metaphor]])

# translationWords

* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/evil]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/iniquity]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/peace]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/neighbor]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/heart]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/works]]