# the word of Yahweh came to me, saying, 'Do

This idiom is used to introduce a special message from God. See how you translated it in [Jeremiah 1:4](../01/04.md). AT: "Yahweh gave me a message. He said, 'Do" or "Yahweh spoke this message to me: 'Do" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-idiom]])

# where there is mourning

The word "mourning" can be translated with a verbal phrase. AT: "where people are mourning" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-abstractnouns]])

# I have taken away my peace from this people ... and my steadfast love and mercy

Yahweh speaks of no longer acting towards the people with peace, steadfast love, and mercy as if these were items that he has taken away from them. AT: "I will no longer act towards them with peace ... or with steadfast love and mercy" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metaphor]])

# this is Yahweh's declaration

Yahweh speaks of himself by name to express the certainty of what he is declaring. See how you translated this in [Jeremiah 1:8](../01/07.md). AT: "this is what Yahweh has declared" or "this is what I, Yahweh, have declared" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-123person]])

# Both the great and the small will

This refers to all kinds of people and uses size to refer to how important they are. AT: "Both the important and the unimportant" or "Many people, regardless of how important they are, will" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-merism]])

# They will not be buried

This can be stated in active form. AT: "No one will bury them" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-activepassive]])

# no one will ... cut themselves or shave their heads for them

Cutting oneself and shaving one's head were symbolic actions that expressed strong grief, especially when a loved one died. (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/translate-symaction]])

# translationWords

* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/yahweh]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/mourn]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/lament]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/peoplegroup]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/peace]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/covenantfaith]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/mercy]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/death]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/bury]]