# No one must share any food in mourning to comfort them because of the deaths ... none must give a comforting cup to his father or his mother

These two clauses have a similar meaning. God said basically the same thing twice for emphasis. It was customary to take food or wine to people whose relative had died. Yahweh has removed all comfort from the people because of their sin. (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-parallelism]])

# none must give a comforting cup

Here the word "cup" represents the drink that the cup holds. AT: "none must give a comforting drink" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metonymy]])

# a banquet house

"a house where people are feasting"

# Yahweh of hosts ... says this

Jeremiah often uses these words to introduce an important message from Yahweh. See how you translated this in [Jeremiah 6:6](../06/06.md).

# See

"Look" or "Listen" or "Pay attention to what I am about to tell you"

# before your eyes

Here the word "your" is plural and refers to the people of Israel. The idiom means that Yahweh will do this where they can see. AT: "in front of you" or "where you can see" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-you]] and [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-idiom]])

# in your days

This idiom means during their lifetime. AT: "during your lifetime" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-idiom]])

# the sound of joy and the sound of gladness, the sound of the groom and the sound of the bride

See how you translated this in [Jeremiah 7:34](../07/33.md).

# translationWords

* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/comfort]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/banquet]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/yahwehofhosts]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/god]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/israel]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/joy]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/voice]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/bride]]