# I will send for many fishermen ... so they will fish the people out

Yahweh speaks of enemy armies who will attack and kill the people as if they were fishermen who are catching fish. (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metaphor]])

# this is Yahweh's declaration

Yahweh speaks of himself by name to express the certainty of what he is declaring. See how you translated this in [Jeremiah 1:8](../01/07.md). AT: "this is what Yahweh has declared" or "this is what I, Yahweh, have declared" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-123person]])

# I will send for many hunters so they will hunt for them among

Yahweh speaks of enemy armies who will attack and kill the people as if they were hunters who are hunting animals. (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metaphor]])

# my eye is on all their ways

Here the word "eye" represents Yahweh who sees all that they do. AT: "I am watching everything they do" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-synecdoche]])

# they cannot be hidden from before me

Here the word "they" may refer either to the people or to their actions. This can be stated in active form. AT: "they cannot hide from me" or "they cannot hide their ways from me" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-activepassive]])

# Their iniquity cannot be concealed from before my eyes

Here the word "eyes" represents Yahweh who sees. This can be stated in active form. AT: "They cannot conceal their iniquity from me" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-synecdoche]] and [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-activepassive]])

# for their polluting of my land

Yahweh speaks of causing the land to be unacceptable to him as if the people had polluted the land. The words "their polluting" can be translated with a verbal phrase. AT: "because they have polluted my land" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metaphor]] and [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-abstractnouns]])

# for their filling my inheritance with their disgusting idols

The idiom "to fill" means that they have placed many idols in the land. The words "their filling" can be translated with a verbal phrase. AT: "because they have filled my inheritance with their disgusting idols" or "because their disgusting idols are everywhere in my inheritance" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-idiom]] and [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-abstractnouns]])

# my inheritance

Yahweh speaks of the land as if it were his inheritance that he has claimed as a permanent possession. AT: "the land that is my inheritance" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metaphor]])