# Yahweh, you are my stronghold

Here Jeremiah begins speaking to Yahweh.

# my stronghold and my refuge, my place of safety

Jeremiah speaks of Yahweh as a place where enemies cannot attack him. He repeats the same idea three times. (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metaphor]] and [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-doublet]])

# The nations will go to you

Here the word "nations" represents the people from the nations. AT: "The people from the nations will go to you" or "The people of the nations will come to you" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metonymy]] and [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-go]])

# the ends of the earth

This is an idiom that means the farthest places on the earth. By referencing both ends, it refers to everywhere in between. AT: "the farthest places on the earth" or "everywhere on earth" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-idiom]] and [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-merism]])

# our ancestors inherited deceit

Here the word "deceit" refers to false gods. AT: "our ancestors inherited nothing but false gods" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metonymy]])

# They are empty; there is no profit in them

Here the words "They" and "them" refer to the false gods that the ancestors taught them to believe in. The two phrases mean basically the same thing, with the second explaining how they "are empty." (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-parallelism]])

# Do people make gods for themselves? But they are not gods

The people ask this rhetorical question to emphasize that people cannot make gods for themselves. It can be translated as a statement. AT: "People cannot make gods for themselves. The things that they make are not gods" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-rquestion]])

# Therefore see

"Therefore, indeed." Here Yahweh begins speaking. The word "see" adds emphasis to what follows.

# I will cause them to know

Here the word "them" refers to the people from the nations. Yahweh repeats this phrase for emphasis.

# my hand and my power

Here the word "hand" refers to power and authority. The two phrases mean basically the same thing and emphasize Yahweh's great power. AT: "my great power" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metonymy]] and [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-doublet]])

# they will know that Yahweh is my name

Here the word "name" refers to Yahweh's entire person. AT: "they will know that I am Yahweh, the true God" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metonymy]])

# translationWords

* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/stronghold]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/refuge]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/save]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/nation]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/earth]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/deceive]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/profit]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/falsegod]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/know]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/hand]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/power]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/name]]