# Connecting Statement:

Eliphaz continues speaking to Job.

# you will be built up

Eliphaz compares Job's restoration to the rebuilding of a house that has fallen. This can be stated in active form. AT: "he will heal you and make you prosper again" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metaphor]] and [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-activepassive]])

# if you put unrighteousness far away from your tents

Unrighteousness is pictured as a person who is living in Job's tent who must be removed. AT: "if you and everyone in your house stops sinning" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metaphor]])

# Lay your treasure down in the dust

To lay a treasure in the dust is to treat it as unimportant. AT: "Consider your riches as unimportant as dust" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-idiom]])

# the gold of Ophir among the stones of the brooks

To put gold in the stream is to treat it as no more valuable than stones. AT: "the gold of Ophir is as worthless as stones in a stream" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-idiom]])

# Ophir

This is the name of a region famous for its gold. (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/translate-names]])

# the Almighty will be your treasure, precious silver to you

This means God will be more valuable to Job than any treasure. (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metaphor]])

# translationWords

* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/return]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/almighty]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/righteous]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/tent]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/gold]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/silver]]