# Connecting Statement:

Though Israel as a nation has rejected God, God wants them to understand salvation comes by grace without works.

# I say then

"I, Paul, say then"

# did God reject his people?

Paul asks this question so that he can answer the questions of other Jews who are upset that God has included the Gentiles among his people, while the hearts of the Jewish people have been hardened. (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-rquestion]])

# May it never be

"That is not possible!" or "Certainly not!" This expression strongly denies that this could happen. You may have a similar expression in your language that you could use here. See how you translated this in [Romans 9:14](../09/14.md).

# tribe of Benjamin

This refers to the tribe descended from Benjamin, one of the 12 tribes into which God divided the people of Israel.

# whom he foreknew

"whom he knew ahead of time"

# Do you not know what the scripture says about Elijah, how he pleaded with God against Israel?

You can translate this in an active form. AT: "Surely you know what the Scriptures record about when Elijah pleaded with God against Israel" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-rquestion]])

# what the scripture says

Paul is referring to the Scriptures as if they were able to speak. (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-personification]])

# they have killed

"They" refers to the people of Israel.

# I alone am left

The pronoun "I" here refers to Elijah.

# seeking my life

"desiring to kill me"

# translationWords

* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/god]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/peopleofgod]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/israel]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/descendant]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/abraham]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/tribe]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/benjamin]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/foreordain]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/wordofgod]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/elijah]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/israel]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/lordgod]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/prophet]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/altar]]