# For if their rejection means the reconciliation of the world

"For if because God rejected them, he will reconcile the rest of the world to himself"

# their rejection

The pronoun "their" refers to Jewish unbelievers.

# the world

Here "the world" is a metonym for the people who live in the world. AT: "the people in the world" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metonymy]])

# what will their acceptance be but life from the dead?

Paul asks this question to emphasize that when God accepts the Jews, it will be a wonderful thing. You can translate it in an active form. AT: "how will it be when God accepts them? It will be like they have come back to life from among the dead!" or "then when God accepts them, it will be like they have died and become alive again!" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-rquestion]] and [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-activepassive]])

# the dead

These words speak of all dead people together in the underworld.

# If the firstfruits are reserved, so is the lump of dough

Paul is speaking of Abraham, Isaac, and Jacob, the Israelites' ancestors, as if they were the first grain or "firstfruits" to be harvested. He is also speaking of the Israelites who are descendants of those men as if they were a "lump of dough" that they made from the grain. AT: "If Abraham is counted as the first of what has been offered to God, all of our ancestors who followed should also be counted as God's possession" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metaphor]])

# If the root is reserved, so are the branches

Paul is speaking of Abraham, Isaac, and Jacob, the Israelites' ancestors, as if they were the root of a tree, and the Israelites who are descendants of those men, as if they were the tree's "branches." (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metaphor]])

# reserved

The people always dedicated to God the first crops that they harvested. Here "firstfruits" stands for the first people to believe in Christ. (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metaphor]])

# translationWords

* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/reject]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/reconcile]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/world]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/life]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/death]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/firstfruit]]