# General Information:

In verse 25, Jesus begins to respond to the Pharisees' accusation that he healed the man by the power of Satan.

# this miracle

This refers to the miracle of the healing of a blind, deaf, and demon-possessed man.

# This man does not cast out demons except by Beelzebul

This can be stated in a positive form. "This man is only able to cast out the demon because he is a servant of Beelzebul" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-doublenegatives]])

# This man

The Pharisees avoid calling Jesus by name to show they reject him.

# the prince of the demons

"the chief of the demons"

# Every kingdom divided against itself is made desolate, and every city or house divided against itself will not stand

Jesus uses a proverb to respond to the Pharisees. Both of these statements mean the same thing. They emphasize that it would not make sense for Beelzebul to use his power to fight other demons. (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/writing-proverbs]] and [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-parallelism]])

# Every kingdom divided against itself is made desolate

Here "kingdom" refers to those who live in the kingdom. This can be translated in active form. AT: "A kingdom will not last when its people fight among themselves" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metonymy]] and [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-activepassive]])

# every city or house divided against itself will not stand

Here "city" refers to the people who live there. And, "house" refers to a family. AT: "it ruins a city or a family when the people fight each other" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metonymy]])