# Connecting Statement:

Jesus continues to respond to the Pharisees.

# But if I

Here "if" does not mean Jesus is questioning how he drives out demons. Here Jesus uses the word to introduce a true statement. AT: "But because I"

# then the kingdom of God has come upon you

"then the kingdom of God has arrived among you." Here "kingdom" refers to God's rule as king. AT: "this means God is establishing his rule among you" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metonymy]])

# come upon you

Here "you" is plural and refers to the people of Israel. (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-you]])

# How can anyone enter the house ... belongings from his house

Jesus uses a parable to continue his response to the Pharisees. Jesus means he can drive out demons because he is more powerful than Satan. (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-parables]])

# How can anyone enter ... without tying up the strong man first?

Jesus uses a question to teach the Pharisees and the crowd. AT: "No one can enter ... without tying up the strong man first." or "If a person wants to enter ... he must first tie up the strong man." (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-rquestion]])

# without tying up the strong man first

"without taking control of the strong man first"

# Then he will steal

"The he can steal" or "Then he will be able to steal"

# who is not with me

"who does not support me" or "who does not work with me"

# is against me

"opposes me" or "works against me"

# the one who does not gather with me scatters

Jesus is using a metaphor that refers to a person either gathering the flock of sheep to a shepherd or making them scatter away from the shepherd. Jesus means that a person is either helping to make people become disciples of Jesus or he is making people reject Jesus. (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metaphor]])

# translationWords

* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/castout]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/holyspirit]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/kingdomofgod]]