# Connecting Statement:

Jesus continues to respond to the Pharisees.

# I say to you

This adds emphasis to what Jesus says next.

# say to you

Here "you" is plural. Jesus is speaking directly to the Pharisees, but he is also teaching the crowd. (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-you]])

# every sin and blasphemy will be forgiven men

This can be stated in active form. AT: "God will forgive every sin that people commit and every evil thing they say" or "God will forgive every person who sins or says evil things" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-activepassive]])

# blasphemy against the Spirit will not be forgiven

This can be stated in active form. AT: "God will not forgive the person who speaks evil things about the Holy Spirit" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-activepassive]])

# Whoever speaks any word against the Son of Man

Here "word" refers to what someone says. AT: "If a person says anything bad about the Son of Man" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metonymy]])

# the Son of Man

Jesus is speaking about himself. (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-123person]])

# that will be forgiven him

This can be stated in active form. AT: "God will forgive a person for that" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-activepassive]])

# that will not be forgiven him

This can be stated in active form. AT: "God will not forgive that person"

# neither in this world, nor in that which is to come

Here "this world" and "that which is to come" refer to the present life and the next life. AT: "in this life or in the next life" or "now or ever" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metonymy]])

# translationWords

* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/sin]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/blasphemy]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/forgive]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/holyspirit]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/sonofman]]