# Connecting Statement:

The dialogue in these verses happens immediately after Jesus responded to the Pharisees' accusation that he healed a man by the power of Satan.

# General Information:

In verse 39, Jesus begins to rebuke the scribes and Pharisees.

# wish

"want"

# to see a sign from you

You can make explicit why they want to see a sign. AT: "to see a sign from you that proves what you say is true" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-explicit]])

# An evil and adulterous generation seeks for a sign ... given to it

Jesus is speaking to his present generation. AT: "You are an evil and adulterous generation who demands signs from me ... given to you" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-123person]])

# adulterous generation

Here "adulterous" is a metaphor for people who are not faithful to God. AT: "unfaithful generation" or "godless generation" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metaphor]])

# seeks for a sign

This request angers Jesus because of the religious leaders skeptical attitude about Jesus. He had already performed many miracles, but they still did not believe him. (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-explicit]])

# no sign will be given

This can be stated in active form. AT: "God will not give a sign" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-activepassive]])

# except the sign of Jonah the prophet

"except the same sign God gave to Jonah the prophet"

# three days and three nights

Here "day" and "night" mean complete 24-hour periods. AT: "three complete days" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-merism]])

# the Son of Man

Jesus is speaking about himself. (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-123person]])

# in the heart of the earth

This means inside a physical grave. (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-idiom]])

# translationWords

* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/scribe]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/pharisee]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/jesus]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/teacher]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/miracle]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/adultery]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/generation]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/jonah]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/prophet]]