# Connecting Statement:

Jesus continues to rebuke the scribes and Pharisees.

# Queen of the South

This refers to the Queen of Sheba. Sheba is a land south of Israel. (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/translate-names]])

# will rise up at the judgment with the men of this generation

"will stand up on the judgment day and accuse the men of this generation." See how you translated a similar statement in [Matthew 12:41](./41.md).

# this generation

This means the people living during the time Jesus was preaching.

# condemn it

It will actually be God who condemns Jesus' generation. See how you translated a similar statement in [Matthew 12:41](./41.md). AT: "and God will listen to the citizens of Nineveh and condemn this generation" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-explicit]])

# She came from the ends of the earth

Here "ends of the earth" is an idiom that means "far away." AT: "She came from very far away" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-idiom]])

# She came

This statement explains why the Queen of the South will condemn Jesus' generations. AT: "For she came" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/writing-connectingwords]])

# and see

"and look." This adds emphasis to what Jesus says next.

# someone greater

"someone more important"

# someone

Jesus is speaking about himself. (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-123person]])

# than Solomon is here

You can make explicit the implicit meaning of Jesus' statement. AT: "than Solomon is here, yet you do not listen. That is why God will condemn you" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-explicit]])

# translationWords

* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/queen]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/judgmentday]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/generation]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/wise]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/solomon]]