# Connecting Statement:

This is the end of the part of the story that began in [Matthew 12:1](./01.md), where the writer tells of growing opposition to Jesus' ministry.

# who told him

The details of the message the person told Jesus are understood and not repeated here. AT: "who told Jesus that his mother and brothers wanted to speak to him" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-ellipsis]])

# Who is my mother and who are my brothers?

Jesus uses these questions to teach the people. AT: "I will tell you who are really my mother and brothers" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-rquestion]])

# See

"Look" or "Listen" or "Pay attention to what I am about to tell you"

# here are my mother and my brothers

This is a metaphor that means Jesus' disciples belong to Jesus' spiritual family. This is more important than belonging to his physical family. (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metaphor]])

# whoever does

"anyone who does"

# Father

This is an important title for God. (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/guidelines-sonofgodprinciples]])

# that person is my brother, and sister, and mother

This is a metaphor meaning that those who obey God belong to Jesus' spiritual family. This is more important than belonging to his physical family. (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metaphor]])

# translationWords

* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/jesus]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/disciple]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/willofgod]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/godthefather]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/heaven]]