# David counted the soldiers who were with him and appointed

David did not count all of the people himself, rather other men counted them. AT: "David commanded for the soldiers who were with him to be counted and he appointed" or "David arranged the soldiers who were with him and appointed" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metonymy]])

# captains of thousands and captains of hundreds

Possible meanings are 1) these numbers represent the exact amount of soldiers that these captains led. AT: "captains of 1,000 soldiers and captains of 100 soldiers" or 2) the words translated as "thousands" and "hundreds" do not represent exact numbers, but are the names of larger and smaller military divisions. AT: "captains of large military divisions and captains of smaller military divisions" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/translate-numbers]])

# captains

A captain is a person who is in authority over a group of soldiers.

# one-third ... another third

"one-third of the army ... another third of the army." A "third" is one part out of three equal parts. (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/translate-fraction]])

# Abishai ... Zeruiah

See how you translated these men's names in [2 Samuel 2:18](../02/18.md). (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/translate-names]])

# Ittai

See how you translated this man's name in [2 Samuel 15:19](../15/19.md). (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/translate-names]])

# Gittite

This refers to a person from Gath, which is a Philistine city. (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/translate-names]])

# I will certainly go out with you myself, too

This means that he will go out with them to battle. This can be stated clearly. AT: "I myself will go with you to battle" or "I personally will go with you into battle" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-explicit]])