# my spirit faints

Here the "spirit" refers to the whole person. AT: "I am weak" or "I am very discouraged" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-personification]] and [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-synecdoche]])

# Do not hide your face from me

This is a request. "I beg you not to hide from me" or "Please, do not hide from me"

# Do not hide your face from me

The psalmist speaks of Yahweh refusing to do what the psalmist asks as if Yahweh were refusing to even look at the psalmist. This litotes can be stated as a positive. AT: "Do not refuse to listen to me" or "Please listen to me" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metaphor]] and [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-litotes]])

# I will become like those who go down into the pit

Here the word "pit" refers to the place of the dead. This phrase is a euphemism for death. AT: "I will become just another dead person" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-euphemism]])

# Let me hear your covenant faithfulness

"Cause me to hear of your covenant faithfulness" or "Tell me of your covenant faithfulness." The abstract noun "faithfulness" can be translated with an adjective. AT: "Let me hear of how you are faithful to your covenant" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-abstractnouns]])

# in the morning

Possible meanings are 1) "in the morning," at the time many people thought was the best time to pray, or 2) "morning by morning," every day.

# Show me

"Tell me"

# the way where I should walk

The psalmist speaks of the way people live as if it were a path on which they walk. AT: "how you want me to live" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metaphor]])

# for I lift up my soul to you

Possible meanings are 1) "I pray to you" or 2) "I believe that you will guide and protect me."

# translationWords

* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/spirit]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/face]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/pit]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/covenantfaith]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/trust]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/walk]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/soul]]