# the fifth seal

"the next seal" or "seal number five" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/translate-ordinal]])

# under the altar

This may have been "at the base of the altar."

# those who had been killed

This can be translated with an active verb. AT "those whom others had killed" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-activepassive]])

# because of the word of God and the testimony which they held

The word "held" here is a metaphor. Possible meanings are 1) holding the testimony refers to believing God's word and testimony. AT: "because they believed the word of God, which is his testimony" or 2) holding the testimony refers to testifying about the word of God. AT: "because they testified about the word of God" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metaphor]])

# avenge our blood

The word blood here represents their deaths. AT: "punish those who killed us" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metonymy]])

# until the full number ... were to be killed

This implies that God had decided that a certain number of people should be killed by their enemies.

# their fellow servants and their brothers and sisters

This is one group of people described in two ways: as servants and as brothers and sisters. AT: "their brothers and sisters who serve God with them" or "their fellow believers who serve God with them"

# brothers and sisters

Christians are often spoken of as being one another's brothers and sisters. AT: "fellow Christians" or "fellow believers" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metaphor]])

# translationWords

* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/altar]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/soul]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/wordofgod]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/testimony]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/ruler]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/holy]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/true]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/judge]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/avenge]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/robe]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/servant]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/brother]]