# General Information:

Parallelism is common in Hebrew poetry. (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/writing-poetry]] and [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-parallelism]])

# General Information:

In much of this psalm, David writes as if he were a sheep and the Lord were his shepherd. (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-exmetaphor]])

# A psalm of David

Possible meanings are 1) David wrote the psalm or 2) the psalm is about David or 3) the psalm is in the style of David's psalms.

# Yahweh is my shepherd

The writer speaks about Yahweh as if he were a shepherd. This emphasizes how God cares for people as a shepherd cares for his sheep. AT: "Yahweh is like a shepherd to me" or "Yahweh cares for me as a shepherd cares for his sheep" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metaphor]])

# I will lack nothing

This can be stated in positive form. AT: "I have everything that I need" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-litotes]])

# He makes me to lie down in green pastures

The writer speaks about himself as if he were a sheep, and he speaks about Yahweh as if he were a shepherd. AT: He gives me rest like a shepherd who leads his sheep to lie down in green pastures" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metaphor]])

# he leads me beside tranquil water

The writer speaks about himself as if he were a sheep, and he speaks about Yahweh as if he were a shepherd. AT: "he provides what I need like a shepherd who leads his sheep beside tranquil water" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metaphor]])

# tranquil water

"calm water" or "water that flows gently." This water is safe to drink.

# translationWords

* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/psalm]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/david]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/yahweh]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/shepherd]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/water]]