# poured out his bowl

The word "bowl" refers to what is in it. See how you translated this in [Revelation 16:2](./02.md). AT: "poured out the wine from his bowl" or "poured out God's wrath from his bowl" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metonymy]])

# it was given permission to scorch the people

John speaks about the sun as if it were a person. This can be stated in active form. AT: "and caused the sun to severely burn the people" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-personification]] and [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-activepassive]])

# They were scorched by the terrible heat

This can be stated in active form. AT: "The extreme heat burned them badly" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-activepassive]])

# they blasphemed the name of God

Here the name of God represents God. AT: "they blasphemed God" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metonymy]])

# God, who has the power over these plagues

This phrase reminds readers of something they already know about God. It helps to explain why the people were blaspheming God. AT: "God because he has the power over these plagues" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-distinguish]])

# the power over these plagues

This refers to the power to inflict these plagues on people, and the power to stop the plagues. (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metaphor]])

# translationWords

* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/angel]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/fire]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/blasphemy]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/power]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/plague]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/repent]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/glory]]