# General Information:

Verse 15 is a break from the main story line of John's vision. These are words spoken by Jesus. The story line continues in verse 16.

# Look! I am coming

It can be stated clearly that the Lord Jesus was saying this as in the UDB. The parentheses are used here to show that this is not part of the story line in the vision. (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-explicit]])

# I am coming as a thief

Jesus will come at a time when people do not expect him, just as a thief comes when not expected. See how you translated a similar phrase in [Revelation 3:3](../03/03.md). (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-simile]])

# keeping his garments on

Living the right way is spoken of as keeping one's clothes on. AT: "doing what is right, like keeping his clothes on" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metaphor]])

# keeping his garments on

Some versions translate, "keeping his garments with him."

# they see his shameful condition

Here the word "they" refers to other people.

# They brought them together

"The spirits of the demons brought the kings and their armies together"

# the place that is called

This can be stated in active form. AT: "the place that people call" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-activepassive]])

# Armageddon

This is the name of a place. (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/translate-names]])

# translationWords

* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/bless]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/watch]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/shame]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/hebrew]]