# Connecting Statement:

The seventh angel pours out the seventh bowl of God's wrath.

# poured out his bowl

The word "bowl" refers to what is in it. See how you translated this in [Revelation 16:2](./02.md). AT: "poured out the wine from his bowl" or "poured out God's wrath from his bowl" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metonymy]])

# Then a loud voice came out of the temple and from the throne

This means someone sitting on the throne or someone standing near the throne spoke loudly. It is unclear who is speaking. (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metonymy]])

# flashes of lightning

Use your language's way of describing what lightning looks like each time it appears. See how you translated this in [Revelation 4:5](../04/04.md).

# rumbles, crashes of thunder

These are the loud noises that thunder makes. Use your language's way of describing the sound of thunder. See how you translated this in [Revelation 4:5](../04/04.md).

# The great city was split

This can be stated in active form. AT: "The earthquake split the great city" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-activepassive]])

# Then God called to mind

"Then God remembered" or "Then God thought of" or "Then God started to pay attention to." This does not mean that God remembered something he had forgotten.

# he gave that city the cup filled with the wine made from his furious wrath

The wine is a symbol of his wrath. Making people drink it is a symbol of punishing them. AT: "he made the people of that city drink the wine that represents his wrath" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/writing-symlanguage]])

# translationWords

* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/angel]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/voice]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/temple]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/throne]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/nation]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/mind]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/names/babylon]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/wine]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/wrath]]