# General Information:

Yahweh tells Ezekiel to speak a prophecy. Ezekiel is to speak to the mountains of Israel, but the message is for all of the people of Israel.

# son of man

"son of a human being" or "son of humanity." God calls Ezekiel this to emphasize that Ezekiel is only a human being. God is eternal and powerful, but humans are not. See how you translated this in [Ezekiel 2:1](../02/01.md). AT: "mortal person" or "human"

# prophesy to the mountains of Israel

God wants Ezekiel to speak to the mountains as if they were people. The message is for the people of Israel. (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-personification]])

# Aha

This is an expression of joy. It can be translated as "I am very happy" or "This is great."

# The ancient high places

"The very old mountains." This refers to the high mountains of Israel.

# have become our possession

"now belong to us"

# Because of your desolation

The abstract noun "desolation" can be stated as "desolate." AT: "Because you, mountains of Israel, have become desolate" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-abstractnouns]])

# because of the attacks that came on you from all sides

"because you were attacked from every direction" or "because your enemies attacked you from every direction"

# you have been the subject of slanderous lips and tongues, and of people's stories

Here, "lips" and "tongues" represent people speaking. AT: "people are saying bad things about you, and the nations are telling bad stories about you" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-synecdoche]])

# translationWords

* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/sonofman]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/prophet]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/israel]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/wordofgod]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/lordyahweh]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/adversary]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/highplaces]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/possess]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/desolate]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/nation]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/slander]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/tongue]]