# General Information:

This continues the message that Yahweh tells Ezekiel to speak to the mountains of Israel. The message is for all of the people of Israel.

# General Information:

It may be helpful to use a verse bridge here, as the UDB does, to arrange the text in a more logical order. (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/translate-versebridge]])

# listen to the word of the Lord Yahweh

"listen to the message of the Lord Yahweh"

# the uninhabited desolations

The abstract noun "desolations" can be stated as "desolate cities." AT: "the desolate cities which have no people living in them" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-abstractnouns]])

# the forsaken cities

This can be stated in active form. AT: "the cities that people have left behind" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-activepassive]])

# that have become plunder

"that enemies have stolen from"

# a subject of mocking for the other nations that surround them

"that the other, surrounding nations mock"

# in the fire of my fury

This speaks of Yahweh's fury as if it were a fire. Yahweh loves Israel very much, so he becomes jealous and angry when other nations mock it. AT: "because of my intense jealousy" or "because of my very strong anger" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metaphor]])

# against Edom and all

"and against all of Edom"

# had both joy in their heart and disdain in their spirit, as they seized my land

Here "heart" and "spirit" represent a person's inner being. The UDB reverses the order of these phrases. AT: "insulted my people and joyfully took my land" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metonymy]])

# Behold!

The word "Behold" here adds emphasis to what follows. AT: "Indeed!"

# In my fury and in my anger

The words "fury" and "anger" mean basically the same thing. Together they emphasize the intensity of his anger. AT: "Because I am extremely angry" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-doublet]])

# you have borne the insults of nations

"other nations have insulted you" or "other nations have mocked you"

# translationWords

* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/desolate]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/forsaken]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/mock]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/nation]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/fire]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/names/edom]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/joy]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/heart]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/spirit]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/seize]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/angry]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/declare]]