# General Information:

This continues Yahweh's message to the mountains of Israel. The message is intended for the people of Israel.

# So I will multiply upon you

Yahweh is speaking to the mountains. This can be stated explicitly. AT: "So, mountains of Israel, I will multiply upon you" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-explicit]])

# even the whole house of Israel

Here "house" represents people. AT: "all of the people of Israel" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metonymy]])

# The cities will be inhabited and the ruins rebuilt

This can be stated in active form. AT: "Then people will live in the cities and will rebuild the ruins" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-activepassive]])

# they will multiply and be fruitful

Here "be fruitful" is an idiom that means to have many children and descendants. AT: "they will become very many people and have very many children" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-idiom]])

# you to be inhabited as you previously were

This can be stated in active form. AT: "people to live on you mountains as they did before" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-activepassive]])

# know that I am Yahweh

When Yahweh says that people will know that he is Yahweh, he is implying that they will know that he is the one true God who has supreme authority and power. See how you translated this in [Ezekiel 6:7](../06/06.md). AT: "understand that I am Yahweh, the one true God" or "realize that I, Yahweh, have supreme power and authority" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-explicit]])

# They will possess you, and you will be their inheritance

The people living in the mountains and land of Israel permanently is spoke of as if the people would inherit them. AT: "They will possess you permanently" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metaphor]])

# you will no longer cause their children to die

It is implied that in the past children died because there was not enough food in the land. Now the land would produce enough food. (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-explicit]])

# translationWords

* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/house]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/desolate]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/walk]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/possess]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/inherit]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/children]]