# General Information:

This continues Yahweh's message to the mountains of Israel. The message is meant for the people of Israel.

# they are saying to you

"other nations are saying to you mountains"

# You devour people

Not enough food growing in Israel so that people die is spoken of as if the mountains of Israel were devouring the people. AT: "You cause many people to die" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metaphor]])

# your nation's children have died

"you cause your people's children to die." It is implied that the mountains do this by not growing good crops. This can be made explicit as in the UDB. See (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-explicit]])

# you will not consume people any longer

Not enough food growing in Israel so that people die is spoken of as if the mountains of Israel were consuming the people. AT: "you will no longer cause the people to die" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metaphor]])

# This is the Lord Yahweh's declaration

Yahweh speaks of himself by name to express the certainty of what he is declaring. See how you translated this in [Ezekiel 5:11](../05/11.md). AT: "This is what the Lord Yahweh has declared" or "This is what I, the Lord Yahweh, have declared" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-123person]])

# Nor will I allow you to hear the insults of the nations any longer

This speaks of the mountains as if they were able to hear when people insult them. AT: "I will no longer allow the other nations to insult you" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-personification]])

# you will no longer have to bear the shame of the peoples

Experiencing shame is spoken of as if the mountains could bear shame. AT: "the peoples will no longer cause you to feel ashamed" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-personification]] and [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metaphor]])

# or cause your nation to fall

Here "to fall" is an idiom that means to be defeated in battle. AT: "or cause your people to suffer defeat" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-idiom]])