# the word of Yahweh came

This is an idiom that is used to introduce something that God told his prophets or his people. See how you translated this in [Ezekiel 3:16](../03/16.md). AT: "Yahweh spoke this message" or "Yahweh spoke these words" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-idiom]])

# Son of man

"Son of a human being" or "Son of humanity." God calls Ezekiel this to emphasize that Ezekiel is only a human being. God is eternal and powerful, but humans are not. See how you translated this in [Ezekiel 2:1](../02/01.md). AT: "Mortal person" or "Human"

# the house of Israel

Here "house" represents people. AT: "the people of Israel" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metonymy]])

# with their ways and their deeds

"by the way they lived and the things they did"

# Their ways were like the unclean menstruation of a woman before me

This compares how the people behaved to a woman's unclean menstruation rags. This emphasizes how disgusting their behaviors were to Yahweh. AT: "Their ways were as disgusting to me as the unclean menstruation of a woman" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-simile]])

# menstruation of a woman

the blood that comes out of a woman every month when she is not pregnant

# I poured out my fury against them

Yahweh punishing people because he is angry is spoken of as if his fury were a liquid that he poured out. AT: "I did things to them that showed how angry I was" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metaphor]])

# for the blood that they poured out on the land

This is an idiom that refers to killing someone. AT: "because they made the blood of many people spill onto the land" or "because they murdered many people" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-idiom]])

# for their pollution of it by their idols

The people worshiping idols is spoken of as if the idols made the land physically dirty. AT: "because they defiled the land with their idols" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metaphor]])