# General Information:

Yahweh continues speaking to Ezekiel about Israel.

# I scattered them among the nations; they were dispersed through the lands

These two phrases mean basically the same thing. See how you translated a similar phrase in [Ezekiel 12:15](../12/14.md). AT: "I caused them to separate and live in separate lands" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-parallelism]])

# they were dispersed through the lands

This can be stated in active form. AT: "I dispersed them through the lands" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-activepassive]])

# their ways and their deeds

Here "ways" and "deeds" mean basically the same thing. AT: "the things that they have done" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-doublet]])

# they profaned my holy name

Here "name" represents Yahweh and his reputation. AT: "they mocked me" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metonymy]])

# when people

"because other people said"

# Are these really the people of Yahweh?

The people use a question to express their surprise at what they saw. AT: "I cannot believe these are really the people of Yahweh!" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-rquestion]])

# For they have been thrown out of his land

This can be stated in active form. AT: "For Yahweh has forced them out of his land" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-activepassive]])

# his land

This refers to the land of Israel.

# But I had compassion for my holy name that the house of Israel had defiled among the nations, when they went there

Here "name" represents Yahweh and his reputation. AT: "When the house of Israel went among the nations, they caused me disgrace, but I wanted people to know that I am holy" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metonymy]])

# I had compassion for my holy name

"I cared about my holy name"

# the house of Israel

Here "house" represents people. AT: "the people of Israel" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metonymy]])