# General Information:

Yahweh continues giving Ezekiel his message to Israel.

# for your sake

"for you"

# this is the Lord Yahweh's declaration

Yahweh speaks of himself by name to express the certainty of what he is declaring. See how you translated this in [Ezekiel 5:11](../05/11.md). AT: "this is what the Lord Yahweh has declared" or "this is what I, the Lord Yahweh, have declared" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-123person]])

# let this be known to you

"know this" or "you can be sure of this." Yahweh says this to emphasize that it is not because the people are good that he will restore them. This phrase can be moved to the beginning of the verse. (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-activepassive]])

# So be ashamed and disgraced

The words "ashamed" and "disgraced" share similar meanings. Together they emphasize the intensity of the shame. AT: "So be very ashamed" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-doublet]])

# because of your ways

"because of what you do"

# house of Israel

Here "house" represents people. AT: "people of Israel" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metonymy]])

# you will plow the ruined land

"you will farm the ruined land"

# before the eyes of all who pass by

The eyes represent sight. AT: "to those who pass by and see it" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metonymy]])

# translationWords

* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/lordyahweh]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/declare]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/shame]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/purify]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/iniquity]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/ruin]]