# General Information:

Yahweh continues speaking to Ezekiel.

# I will be asked by the house of Israel

Here "house" represents people. This can be stated in active form. AT: "The people of Israel will ask me" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metonymy]] and [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-activepassive]])

# to increase them like a flock of people

Yahweh causing the people to multiply greatly and quickly is spoken of as if they were a flock of sheep. Sheep multiply very quickly. AT: "to make them multiply like a flock of sheep" or "to make the people multiply quickly like sheep" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metaphor]])

# Like the flock is set apart for sacrifices, like the flock in Jerusalem at her appointed feasts

The phrase "is set apart" can be stated in active form. AT: "Like the great number of sheep that the people set apart for sacrifices or bring to Jerusalem for the appointed feasts" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-activepassive]])

# so will the ruined cities be filled with flocks of people

This speaks of the people of Israel as if they were a flock of sheep. This can be stated in active form. AT: "so will the great number of people be who will be living in the cities that are now ruined but the people will rebuild" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metaphor]] and [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-activepassive]])

# translationWords

* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/lordyahweh]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/flock]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/names/jerusalem]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/appoint]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/feast]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/desolate]]