# Let the heavens be glad, and let the earth rejoice

Possible meanings are 1) the heavens and the earth are spoken of as if they have emotions like people. AT: "Let it be as if the heavens are glad and the earth rejoices" or 2) "the heavens" and "the earth" are metonyms for those who dwell in those places. AT: "Let those who live in the heavens be glad and let those who live on the earth rejoice" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-personification]] and [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metonymy]])

# that which fills it shout with joy

The implied information is that this refers to all the creatures living in the sea. They are spoken of as if they should shout with joy like people might do. AT: "the sea creatures shout joyfully" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-explicit]] and [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-personification]])

# Let the fields rejoice and all that is in them

"Let the fields and all that is in them rejoice." The psalmist speaks as if "the fields" and the animals that live in them have emotions like people. AT: "Let it be as if the fields themselves and all the animals that live in them are rejoicing" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-personification]])

# let all the trees in the forest shout for joy

This speaks about the trees as if they were people who could shout for joy. AT: "let it be as if all the trees in the forest shout for joy" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-personification]])

# He is coming to judge the earth. He will judge the world ... and the peoples

The three phrase have similar meanings; the last two phases are used to strengthen the first. (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-parallelism]])

# to judge ... will judge

Another possible meaning is "to rule ... will rule."

# He will judge the world with righteousness

Here "the world" is a metonym for all the people in the world. See how these words are translated in [Psalms 9:8](../009/007.md). AT: "He will judge all the people of the world righteously" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metonymy]])

# the peoples with his faithfulness

The words "he will judge" are understood. AT: "he will judge the peoples with his faithfulness" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-ellipsis]])

# with his faithfulness

The can be restated to remove the abstract noun "faithfulness." Possible meanings are 1) AT: "fairly, according to what he knows is true" or 2) AT: "using the same standard for all people" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-abstractnouns]])

# translationWords

* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/heaven]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/joy]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/joy]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/righteous]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/faithful]]