# General Information:

The scene shifts to events that occurred some time after events of the previous chapter. Here Jesus responds to the criticisms of the Pharisees. (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/writing-newevent]])

# Why do your disciples violate the traditions of the elders?

The Pharisees and scribes use this question to criticize Jesus and his disciples. AT: "Your disciples do not respect the rules that our ancestors have given us" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-rquestion]])

# traditions of the elders

This is not the same as the law of Moses. This refers to later teachings and interpretations of the law given by religious leaders after Moses.

# they do not wash their hands

This washing is not only to clean hands. This refers to a ceremonial washing according to the tradition of the elders. AT: "they do not wash their hands properly" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-explicit]])

# Then why do you violate the commandment of God for the sake of your traditions?

Jesus answers with a question to criticize what the religious leaders do. AT: "And I see that you refuse to obey God's commands just so that you can follow what your ancestors taught you!" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-rquestion]])

# translationWords

* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/pharisee]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/scribe]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/jesus]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/jerusalem]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/disciple]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/tradition]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/elder]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/command]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/god]]