# General Information:

This begins an account of Jesus healing the daughter of a Canaanite woman.

# Jesus went away

It is implied that the disciples went with Jesus. AT: "Jesus and his disciples went away" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-explicit]])

# Behold, a Canaanite woman came

The word "behold" alerts us to a new person in the story. Your language may have a way of doing this. AT: "There was a Canaanite woman who came"

# a Canaanite woman came out from that region

"a woman who was from that region and who belonged to the group of people called Canaanites came." The country of Canaan no longer existed by this time. She was a part of a people group that lived near the cities of Tyre and Sidon.

# Have mercy on me

This phrase implies that she is requesting that Jesus heal her daughter. AT: "Have mercy and heal my daughter" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-explicit]])

# Son of David

Jesus was not David's literal son, so this may be translated as "Descendant of David." However, "Son of David" is also a title for the Messiah, and the woman may have been calling Jesus by this title.

# My daughter is severely demon-possessed

This can be stated in active form. AT: "A demon is controlling my daughter terribly" or "A demon is tormenting my daughter severely" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-activepassive]])

# answered her not a word

Here "word" refers to what a person says. AT: "said nothing" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metonymy]])

# translationWords

* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/jesus]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/names/tyre]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/names/sidon]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/names/canaan]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/mercy]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/lord]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/son]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/names/david]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/torment]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/demon]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/disciple]]