# General Information:

Hezekiah continues his written prayer.

# Like a swallow I chirp; I coo like a dove

Both of these clauses mean the same thing and they emphasize how sad and pitiful Hezekiah's cries were. A swallow and a dove are types of birds. AT: "My cries are pitiful--they sound like the chirp of a swallow and the coo of a dove" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-parallelism]] and [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-simile]])

# my eyes

Here Hezekiah refers to himself my his "eyes" to emphasize that he is looking for something. AT: "I" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-synecdoche]])

# with looking upward

This refers to Hezekiah looking to heaven for God to help him. The full meaning of this statement can be made clear. AT: "of waiting for help to come from heaven" or "of waiting for you to help me" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-explicit]])

# I am oppressed

This can be stated in active form. AT: "My sickness oppresses me" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-activepassive]])

# What shall I say?

Hezekiah uses a question to emphasize he has nothing left to say. This can be written as a statement. AT: "I have nothing left to say." (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-rquestion]])

# I will walk slowly

This is an idiom. Here "walking" refers to living. AT: "I will like humbly" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-idiom]])

# all my years

This refers to the rest of his life. The meaning of this can be made clear. AT: "the rest of my life" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-explicit]])

# because I am overcome with grief

"because I am full of grief" or "because I am very sad"

# translationWords

* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/lordgod]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/oppress]]