# Connecting Statement:

Nehemiah continues praying to God.

# Please call to mind

To "call to mind" is an idiom that means to remember. AT: "Please remember" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-idiom]])

# the word you commanded your servant Moses

The pronouns "you" and "your" refer to God.

# If you act unfaithfully ... scatter you ... if you return ... your people

The pronouns "you" and "your" are plural and refer to the Israelite people.

# I will scatter you among the nations

Yahweh speaks of causing the Israelite people to live in other nations as if he scattered them like one would scatter seeds. AT: "I will cause you to live among the nations" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metaphor]])

# though your people were scattered

This can be stated in active form. AT: "though I scattered your people" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-activepassive]])

# under the farthest skies

Yahweh speaks of places on the earth that are very far away as being "under the farthest skies." AT: "to places very far away" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-idiom]])

# to that place where I have chosen ... remain

This phrase refers to Jerusalem, where the temple was located. AT: "to Jerusalem, where I have chosen ... remain" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-explicit]])

# where I have chosen to make my name remain

Here the word "name" represents Yahweh himself. AT: "where I have chosen to dwell" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metonymy]])

# translationWords

* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/call]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/mind]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/word]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/command]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/servant]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/names/moses]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/faithful]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/nation]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/heaven]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/name]]