# Do you have eyes of flesh? Do you see like a man sees?

These two questions have nearly the same meaning. These questions expect a negative answer to emphasize that God does not see or understand things the same way a man does. They can be expressed as statements. AT: "You do not have eyes of flesh, and you do not see like a man sees." (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-parallelism]] and [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-rquestion]])

# Are your days like the days of mankind or your years like the years of people ... and there is no one who can rescue me from your hand?

This question expects a negative answer to emphasize that God is eternal and man's days are limited. It can be expressed as a statement. AT: "Your days are not like the days of mankind and your years are not like the years of people ... and there is no one who can rescue me from your hand." (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-rquestion]])

# your days like the days of mankind ... your years like the years of people

These two phrases have nearly the same meaning. (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-parallelism]])

# your days

"the number of your days"

# your years

"the number of your years"

# inquire after my iniquity ... search after my sin

These two phrases have nearly the same meaning. (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-parallelism]])

# inquire after

"seek after"

# from your hand

Here "your hand" represents God's power. AT: "from your power" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-synecdoche]])