# Are not my days only a few?

Here "my days" represent the length of Job's life. This question expects a positive answer, to emphasize that Job only expects to live a few more days. It can be translated as a statement. AT: "I only have a few days left to live." or "My life will soon end." (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-rquestion]])

# the land

Here the place where the spirits of dead people go is spoken of as if it was a land. AT: "the place" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metaphor]])

# of darkness and of the shadow of death

The phrase "shadow of death" intensifies the idea of "darkness." Both phrases describe where the spirits of dead people go. (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-doublet]])

# the shadow of death

See how you translated this in [Job 3:5](../03/04.md).

# as dark as midnight

The darkness of the place where the spirits of dead people go is compared to the darkness of midnight. (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-simile]])

# without any order

This negative phrase can be expressed in positive form. AT: "full of confusion" or "where all is confused" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-litotes]])

# where the light is like midnight

The light of the place where the spirits of dead people go is compared to midnight. AT: "where there is no light" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-simile]])

# translationWords

* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/rest]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/darkness]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/shadow]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/death]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/light]]