# General Information:

Moses continues to bless the tribes of Israel; the blessings are short poems. He continues to describe the tribe of Joseph, which he began to do in [Deuteronomy 33:13](./13.md). (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-parallelism]])

# May his land be blessed

This can be stated in active form. See how you translated this in [Deuteronomy 33:13](./13.md). AT: "May Yahweh bless his land." (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-activepassive]])

# its abundance

The abstract noun "abundance" can be translated as a verb phrase. AT: "what it produces in large amounts"

# him who was in the bush

The full meaning of this statement can be made clear. AT: "Yahweh, who spoke to Moses from the burning bush" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-explicit]])

# Let the blessing come on the head of Joseph

This metaphor is of a man putting his hand on the head of a son and asking God to bless the son. The man here is Yahweh. AT: "May Yahweh bless Joseph as a father blesses his son" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metaphor]])

# come on the head of Joseph, and on the top of the head of him

Here "head" and "top of the head" represent the whole person. Also, Joseph represents his descendants. AT: "be upon the descendants of Joseph" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-synecdoche]] and [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metonymy]])

# top of the head

Another possible meaning is "brow" or "forehead."

# translationWords

* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/precious]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/earth]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/bless]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/head]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/josephot]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/prince]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/brother]]