# General Information:

Moses continues to bless each tribe of Israel; the blessings are short poems. He speaks to the tribes of Zebulun and Issachar as if they were one man, so the word "your" and the command "rejoice" here are singular. (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-parallelism]] and [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-you]])

# Rejoice, Zebulun, in your going out, and you, Issachar, in your tents

The people of Zebulun were located near the Mediterranean Sea. They traveled by sea and traded with other people. The people of Issachar preferred peaceful living and working the land and raising cattle. You can make clear the understood information. (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-explicit]])

# There will they offer

"It is there that they will offer"

# sacrifices of righteousness

"acceptable sacrifices" or "proper sacrifices"

# For they will suck the abundance of the seas, and from the sand on the seashore

Possible meanings are 1) they will trade with people across the sea or 2) they were beginning to use sand in making pottery.

# For they will suck the abundance of the seas

The Hebrew word translated "suck" here refers to how a baby nurses at its mother's breast. It means the people will gain wealth from the sea like a baby gets milk from its mother. (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metaphor]])

# translationWords

* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/names/zebulun]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/joy]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/names/issachar]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/tent]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/call]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/sacrifice]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/righteous]]