# General Information:

Moses speaks to the Israelites as if they were one man, so the words "you" and "your" here are singular. (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-you]])

# Who is like you, a people saved by Yahweh ... majesty?

This rhetorical question can be translated as a statement. It can also be stated in active form. AT: "There is no other people group like you, a people whom Yahweh has saved ... majesty." (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-rquestion]] and [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-activepassive]])

# the shield ... the sword

This merism speaks of Yahweh defending the Israelites from their enemies and enabling them to attack their enemies. (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-merism]])

# the shield of your help

The word "shield" is a metaphor for Yahweh protecting and defending the Israelites. The abstract noun "help" can be translated as a verb. AT: "the one who protects you and helps you" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metaphor]] and [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-abstractnouns]])

# the sword of your majesty

The word "sword" is a metaphor for the power to kill with the sword in order to win battles. AT: "the one who enables you to win battles and so have majesty" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metaphor]])

# you will trample down their high places

Possible meanings are 1) the Israelites will destroy the places where the other people worship false gods or 2) the Israelites will walk on the backs of their enemies when the Israelites defeat them.

# translationWords

* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/bless]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/save]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/shield]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/sword]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/majesty]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/adversary]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/highplaces]]