# This is the law

"These are the instructions" or "These are the directions"

# for the one who kills another

The word "person" is understood. AT: "for a person who kills another person" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-ellipsis]])

# who flees there

"and who escapes to one of these cities" or "who runs to one of these cities"

# to live

"to save his own life." The full meaning of this statement can be made explicit. AT: "so the family of the man who died does not kill him to get revenge" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-explicit]])

# anyone who kills his neighbor unintentionally

Here "neighbor" means any person in general. AT: "any person who kills another person by accident"

# and did not previously hate him

"but did not hate his neighbor before he killed him." This implies there was no cause for him to kill his neighbor purposely. (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-explicit]])

# For example, if a man goes into the forest ... to cut wood

The author gives a hypothetical situation where a person accidentally kills another person. (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-hypo]])

# the ax head slips off of the handle

The iron part of the ax comes off the wooden handle.

# strikes his neighbor and kills him

This means the head of the ax hits and kills the neighbor.

# to one of these cities and save his life

It is implied that the family of the dead man may try to get revenge. The man who killed him can flee to one of these cities, and the people there would protect him. (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-explicit]])