# General Information:

Moses is still speaking to the people of Israel.

# enlarges your borders

"gives you more land to possess"

# as he has sworn to your ancestors to do

"like he promised your ancestors that he would do"

# if you keep all these commandments to do them

"if you obey all these commandments"

# to always walk in his ways

How God wants a person to live or behave is spoken of as if it were Yahweh's way or road. A person who obeys Yahweh is spoken of as if he were walking on Yahweh's way or road. AT: "to always obey him" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metaphor]])

# then you must add three more cities for yourself

The full meaning of this statement can be made explicit. AT: "then you must choose three more cities for a person to escape to if he accidentally kills someone" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/translate-numbers]] and [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-explicit]])

# besides these three

"in addition to the three cities you already established" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/translate-numbers]])

# Do this so that innocent blood is not shed

This can be stated in active form. AT: "Do this so that family members do not kill an innocent person" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-activepassive]])

# innocent blood is not shed

Here "blood" represents a person's life. To shed blood means to kill a person. This can be stated in active form. AT: "no one kills an innocent person" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metonymy]] and [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-activepassive]])

# in the midst of the land

"in the land" or "in the territory"

# Yahweh your God is giving you for as an inheritance

The land that Yahweh is giving the people of Israel is spoken of as if it were an inheritance. (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metaphor]])

# so that no bloodguilt may be on you

The people of Israel being guilty for a person dying because they did not build a city where he would be safe from the "blood avenger" is spoken of as if the guilt of his death is on them. (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metaphor]])

# bloodguilt

Here "blood" represents a life and "bloodguilt" refers to the guilt someone has for killing an innocent person. (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metonymy]])

# may be on you

This means that if a family member kills an innocent person, then all the people of Israel will be guilty for letting that happen.

# translationWords

* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/oath]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/promise]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/love]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/walk]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/innocent]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/blood]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/inherit]]