# his neighbor

Here "neighbor" means any person in general.

# lies in wait for him

The full meaning of this statement can be made explicit. AT: "hides and waits in order to kill him" or "plans to kill him" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-explicit]])

# rises up against him

This is an idiom. AT: "attacks him" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-idiom]])

# mortally wounds him so that he dies

"hurts him so that he dies" or "and kills him"

# must send and bring him back from there

"must send someone to get him and bring him back from the city that he escaped to"

# turn him over

This is an idiom. AT: "give him over" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-idiom]])

# into the hand of the responsible relative

Here "the hand" represents the authority of someone. AT: "to the authority of the responsible relative" or "to the responsible relative" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metonymy]])

# the responsible relative

This is the relative of the person who was killed. This relative is responsible for punishing the murderer.

# he may die

"the murderer may die" or "the responsible relative may execute the murderer"

# Your eye must not pity him

Here "your eye" represents the whole person. AT: "Do not show him mercy" or "Do not feel sorry for him" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-synecdoche]])

# you must eradicate the bloodguilt from Israel

Here "bloodguilt" represents the guilt for murdering an innocent person. AT: "you must execute the murderer so that the people of Israel will not be guilty for the death of an innocent person" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metonymy]])

# from Israel

Here "Israel" refers to the people of Israel. (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metonymy]])

# translationWords

* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/neighbor]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/death]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/elder]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/send]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/hand]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/israel]]