# How have I sinned ... for him to kill me?

Obadiah asks this question to emphasize the danger to himself because of King Ahab's anger at Elijah. AT: "I have not wronged you ... for him to kill me." (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-rquestion]])

# give your servant into the hand of Ahab

"Hand" is metonymy for power and control. AT: "deliver your servant to Ahab" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metonymy]])

# your servant

Obadiah refers to himself as Elijah's servant in order to honor Elijah.

# As Yahweh your God lives

This is an oath used to emphasize that what he is saying is true.

# there is no nation or kingdom where my master has not sent men

Here "no nation or kingdom" is an exaggeration that means that men have traveled very far and gone to many places to find Elijah. This can be expressed positively. AT: "my master has sent men to nations and kingdoms near and far" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-hyperbole]] and [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-doublenegatives]])

# Yet now

This phrase is used to emphasize the danger in what Elijah is telling Obadiah to do.

# translationWords

* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/sin]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/servant]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/hand]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/names/ahab]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/yahweh]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/god]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/nation]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/kingdom]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/send]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/oath]]