# Connecting Statement:

Paul continues to be a prisoner in Caesarea.

# General Information:

Festus becomes the governor of Caesarea. See how you translated this name in [Acts 24:27](../24/26.md).

# Now

This word marks the beginning of a new event in the story.

# Festus entered the province

Possible meanings are 1) Festus arrived in the area to begin his rule or 2) Festus simply arrived in the area.

# he went from Caesarea up to Jerusalem

The phrase "went up" is used here because Jerusalem is higher in elevation than Caesarea.

# The chief priest and the prominent Jews brought accusations against Paul

This speaks about accusations as if they were an object that a person could bring to someone else. AT: "The chief priest and the important Jews accused Paul to Festus" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metaphor]])

# they urged him and asked him for a favor

Here the word "him" refers to Festus.

# that Festus might summon Paul to Jerusalem

This means that Festus would order his soldiers to bring Paul to Jerusalem. AT: "that he might order his soldiers to bring Paul to Jerusalem"

# so that they could kill him along the way

They were going to ambush Paul.

# translationWords

* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/province]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/caesarea]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/jerusalem]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/chiefpriests]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/jew]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/accuse]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/paul]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/favor]]