# Connecting Statement:

Festus explains Paul's case to King Agrippa.

# General Information:

King Agrippa and Bernice are new people in the story. Though he ruled over only a few territories, King Agrippa is the current reigning king in Palestine. Bernice is Agrippa's sister.(See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/writing-participants]] and [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/translate-names]])

# Now

This word marks the beginning of a new event in the story.

# to pay an official visit to Festus

"to visit Festus concerning official matters"

# A certain man was left behind here by Felix as a prisoner

This can be stated in active form. AT: "When Felix left office, he left a man in prison here" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-activepassive]])

# Felix

Felix was the Roman governor of the area who resided in Caesarea. See how you translated this name in [Acts 23:24](../23/22.md).

# before he faced his accusers

To charge someone in court is spoken of as if it were an object that a person brings to court. AT: "spoke to me against this man" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metaphor]])

# they asked for a sentence of condemnation against him

The abstract nouns "sentence" and "condemnation" can be expressed as verbs. The phrase "a sentence of condemnation" implies that they were requesting that Paul be executed. AT: "they asked me to sentence him to death" or "they asked me to condemn him to death" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-abstractnouns]] and [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-explicit]])

# to hand over anyone

Here "hand over" represents sending someone to people who must kill him. AT: "to hand over anyone to be killed" or "to condemn a man to death" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metaphor]])

# before he faced his accusers

Here "faced his accusers" represents meeting with the people who accuse him. AT: "before he met directly with those who accused him" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metonymy]])

# translationWords

* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/king]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/names/caesarea]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/names/paul]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/prison]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/names/jerusalem]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/chiefpriests]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/elder]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/jew]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/condemn]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/names/rome]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/face]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/accuse]]