# The word that came to Jeremiah from Yahweh, when Nebuchadnezzar ... her cities, saying: "Yahweh

This idiom "The word that came to Jeremiah from Yahweh" is used to introduce a special message from God. See how you translated a similar phrase in [Jeremiah 7:1](../07/01.md), and make any changes as needed. AT: "This is the message that Yahweh gave to Jeremiah when Nebuchadnezzar ... her cities. He said, 'Yahweh" or "When Nebuchadnezzar ... her cities, Yahweh spoke this message to Jeremiah: 'Yahweh" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-idiom]])

# to Jeremiah

It is not clear why Jeremiah is referring to himself by name in this chapter. There is no need to translate using first person. (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-123person]])

# waging war

"fighting"

# all of her cities

This refers to all the towns around Jerusalem. (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metonymy]])

# to give this city

See how you translated this in [Jeremiah 32:28](../32/26.md)

# into the hand of the king of Babylon

Here the word "hand" is a metonym for the control that the hand exercises. AT: "under the control of the king of Babylon" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metonymy]])

# You will not escape from his hand

Here the word "hand" is a metonym for the control that the hand exercises. AT: "You will not escape from his control" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metonymy]])

# you will certainly be seized and given

This can be translated in active form. AT: "the Babylonians will certainly seize you and give you" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-activepassive]])

# translationWords

* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/wordofgod]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/names/jeremiah]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/yahweh]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/names/nebuchadnezzar]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/king]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/names/babylon]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/kingdom]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/power]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/peoplegroup]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/names/jerusalem]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/god]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/israel]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/names/zedekiah]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/names/kingdomofjudah]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/seize]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/hand]]