# General Information:

The writer uses parallelism in each of these verses to make one idea using two different statements to emphasize 1) the support that Job has given others in the past, 2) the effect on him of his present troubles, and 3) his piety before God. (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-parallelism]])

# supported

Someone who has been encouraged is spoken of as if he were kept from falling down. (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metaphor]])

# falling

Here becoming discouraged is spoken of as if it were falling down. (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metaphor]])

# you have made feeble knees firm

Here discouragement is spoken of as if it were a person whose weak knees could not keep him upright. (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metaphor]])

# But now trouble has come to you

Here trouble is spoken of as if it were an object that could come to a person. AT: "But now you suffer from disasters" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metaphor]])

# you are weary

"you are discouraged"

# your fear

"the fact that you honor God"

# Is not your fear your confidence, and the integrity of your ways your hope?

Eliphaz asks these questions in order to tell Job that it is because of his sin that he is suffering. AT: "Everyone thinks that you honor God; everyone thinks that you are an honest man. But these things must not be true, because you do not trust God any longer." (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-rquestion]])

# your fear

Eliphaz means Job's fear of God. AT: "your fear of God" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-explicit]])

# your ways

Here "your ways" represents "your conduct," "how you behave." (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metaphor]])