# Connecting Statement:

This is another part of the story of Paul's travels as he goes to Corinth.

# General Information:

Aquila and Priscilla are introduced to the story and verses 2 and 3 give background information about them. (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/writing-background]])

# After these things

"After these events took place in Athens"

# Athens

Athens was one of the most important cities in Greece. See how you translated this in [Acts 17:15](../17/13.md).

# There he met

Possible meanings are that 1) Paul happened to find by chance or 2) Paul intentionally found.

# a Jew named Aquila

Here the phrase "a certain" indicates this is introducing new person in the story. (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/writing-participants]])

# a native of Pontus

Pontus was a province on the southern coast of the Black Sea. (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/translate-names]])

# had recently come

This is probably sometime in the past year.

# Italy

This is the name of land. Rome is the capital city of Italy. (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/translate-names]])

# Claudius had commanded

Claudius was the current Roman emperor. See how you translated this in [Acts 11:28](../11/27.md).

# he worked at the same trade

"he did the same kind of work that they did"

# translationWords

* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/paul]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/corinth]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/jew]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/aquila]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/priscilla]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/command]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/rome]]