# General Information:

Silas and Timothy rejoin Paul.

# So Paul reasoned

"So Paul debated" or "So Paul discussed." He gave reasons. This means that rather than just preaching, Paul talked and interacted with the people.

# He persuaded both Jews and Greeks

Possible meanings are 1) "He caused both Jews and Greeks to believe" or 2) "He kept trying to persuade the Jews and the Greeks."

# Paul was compelled by the Spirit

This can be stated in active form. AT: "the Spirit compelled Paul" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-activepassive]])

# shook out his garment

This is a symbolic action to indicate that Paul will no longer try to teach the Jews there about Jesus. He is leaving them to God's judgment. (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/translate-symaction]])

# May your blood be upon your own heads

Here "blood" stands for the guilt of their actions. Here "heads" refers to the whole person. Paul tells the Jews they are solely responsible for the judgment they will face for their stubbornness if they refuse to repent. AT: "You alone bear the responsibility for your punishment for sin" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metonymy]] and [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-synecdoche]])

# translationWords

* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/paul]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/synagogue]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/sabbath]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/jew]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/greek]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/silas]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/timothy]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/macedonia]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/holyspirit]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/testimony]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/jesus]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/christ]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/blood]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/head]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/innocent]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/gentile]]