# Connecting Statement:

This continues Paul's missionary journey as Paul, Priscilla, and Aquila leave Corinth. This seems to indicate that Silas and Timothy remain since it says "he" here and not "we."

# General Information:

Cenchreae was a seaport that was part of the greater Corinth city area. (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/translate-names]])

# General Information:

Here the word "he" refers to Paul.

# Connecting Statement:

The word "they" refers to Paul, Priscilla, and Aquila.

# left the brothers

The word "brothers" refers to men and women believers. AT: "left the fellow believers" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-gendernotations]])

# sailed for Syria with Priscilla and Aquila

Paul got on a ship that sailed for Syria. Priscilla and Aquila went with him.

# he had his hair cut off because of a vow he had taken

This is a symbolic action that indicates the completion of a vow. This can be stated in active form. AT: "he had someone cut off the hair on his head" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/translate-symaction]] and [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-activepassive]])

# reasoned with

"discussed with" or "debated with"

# translationWords

* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/names/paul]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/biblicaltimeday]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/brother]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/names/syria]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/names/priscilla]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/names/aquila]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/nazirite]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/names/ephesus]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/synagogue]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/jew]]