# Connecting Statement:

Luke tells what happens in Ephesus with Priscilla and Aquila.

# General Information:

Apollos is introduced to the story. Verses 24 and 25 give background information about him. (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/writing-background]])

# Now

This word is used here to mark a break in the main storyline.

# a certain Jew named Apollos

The phrase "a certain" indicates that Luke is introducing a new person in the story. (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/writing-participants]])

# an Alexandrian by birth

"a man who was born in the city of Alexandria." This was a city in Egypt on the north coast of Africa. (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/translate-names]])

# eloquent in speech

"a good speaker"

# mighty in the scriptures

"he knew the scriptures thoroughly." He understood the Old Testament writings well.

# Apollos had been instructed in the teachings of the Lord

This can be stated in active form. AT: "Other believers had taught Apollos how the Lord Jesus wanted people to live" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-activepassive]])

# Being fervent in spirit

Here "spirit" refers to the entire person of Apollos. AT: "Being very enthusiastic" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-synecdoche]])

# the baptism of John

"The baptism that John performed." This is comparing John's baptism which was with water to Jesus' baptism which is with the Holy Spirit.

# the way of God

How God wants people to live is spoken of as if it were a road that a person travels. (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metaphor]])

# more accurately

"correctly" or "more fully"

# translationWords

* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/jew]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/apollos]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/ephesus]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/wordofgod]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/lordgod]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/spirit]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/jesus]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/baptize]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/johnthebaptist]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/bold]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/synagogue]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/priscilla]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/aquila]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/god]]