# it was written

This can be stated in an active form. AT: "someone had written" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-activepassive]])

# your house

This term refers to the temple, God's house.

# consume

The word "consume" points to the metaphor of "fire." Jesus' love for the temple is like a fire that burns within him. (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metaphor]])

# sign

This refers to an event that proves something is true.

# these things

This refers to Jesus' actions against the money changers in the temple.

# Destroy this temple, ... I will raise it up

Jesus is stating a hypothetical situation in which something would certainly happen if something else that is not true were true. In this case, he would certainly raise the temple up if the Jewish authorities were to destroy it. He is not commanding the Jewish authorities to tear down the actual temple building. You can translate the words "destroy" and "raise" using the usual words for tearing down and rebuilding a building. AT: "If you destroy this temple, I will certainly raise it up" or "If you were to destroy this temple, you can be certain that I would raise it up" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-hypo]] and [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metaphor]])

# raise it up

"cause it to stand"

# translationWords

* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/written]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/zealous]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/houseofgod]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/jewishleaders]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/sign]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/miracle]]
