# General Information:

Here the words "us" and we" refer to Paul, Luke, and those traveling with them, but not to the reader. (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-exclusive]])

# Now in a nearby place

"Now" is used to introduce a new person or event in the account.

# chief man of the island

Possible meanings are 1) the main leader of the people or 2) someone who was the most important person on the island, perhaps because of his wealth.

# a man named Publius

This is the name of a man. (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/translate-names]])

# It happened that the father of Publius ... fever and dysentery

This is background information about Publius' father that is important to understanding the story. (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/writing-background]])

# had been made ill

This can be stated in active form. AT: "was ill" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-activepassive]])

# ill with a fever and dysentery

Dysentery is an infectious intestinal disease.

# placed his hands on him

"touched him with his hands"

# were healed

This can be stated in active form. AT: "he healed them too" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-activepassive]])

# honored us with many honors

Probably they honored Paul and those with him by giving them gifts.

# translationWords

* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/chief]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/father]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/names/paul]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/pray]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/heal]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/honor]]