# Connecting Statement:

As the Jewish leaders were ready to leave, Paul quotes the Old Testament scriptures that were appropriate for this time.

# General Information:

Here the word "they" refers to the Jewish leaders in Rome. (See: [Acts 28:17](./16.md))

# General Information:

The word "your" refers to the people to whom Paul had been speaking. In verse 26, Paul begins to quote the prophet Isaiah.

# after Paul had spoken this one word

Here "word" stands for a message or statement. AT: "after Paul had said one more thing" or "after Paul had made this statement" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metonymy]])

# The Holy Spirit spoke well through Isaiah the prophet to your fathers. He said, 'Go to this people and say, "By hearing you will hear, but not understand; and seeing you will see, but will not perceive

This has quotations within quotations. You can translate one of the inner quotations as an indirect quotation, or you can translate two of the inner quotations as indirect quotations. AT: "The Holy Spirit spoke well through Isaiah the prophet to your forefathers when the Spirit told Isaiah to tell them that they will hear but will not understand; and they will see but they will not perceive" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-quotesinquotes]])

# By hearing you will hear ... and seeing you will see

The words "hear" and "see" are repeated for emphasis. "You will listen carefully ... and you will look intently"

# but not understand ... but will not perceive

Both of these phrases mean basically the same thing. They emphasize that the Jewish people will not understand God's plan. (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-parallelism]])

# translationWords

* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/names/paul]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/word]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/holyspirit]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/names/isaiah]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/prophet]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/father]]