# Connecting Statement:

Jesus continues teaching the crowd.

# But Jesus looked at them

"But Jesus stared at them" or "But he looked straight at them." He did this to hold them accountable to understand what he was saying.

# What is the meaning of that which is written: 'The stone ... cornerstone'?

Jesus uses a question to teach the crowd. AT: "You should be able to understand that which is written: 'The stone ... cornerstone.'" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-rquestion]])

# that which is written

"this scripture"

# The stone that the builders rejected has become the cornerstone

This is the first of three metaphors in a prophecy from the book of Psalms. This one refers to the Messiah as if he were a stone that builders chose not to use, but that God made the most important stone. (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metaphor]])

# The stone that the builders rejected

"The stone which the builders said was not good enough to use for building." In those days people built the walls of houses and other buildings out of stones.

# the builders

This refers to the religious rulers who are rejecting Jesus as Messiah.

# the cornerstone

"the chief stone of the building" or "the most important stone of the building"

# Every one who falls ... broken to pieces

This second metaphor speaks of people who reject the Messiah as if they fall over a stone and are injured. (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metaphor]])

# will be broken to pieces

This is a result of falling onto the stone. It can be stated in active form. AT: "will break up into pieces"  (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-activepassive]])

# But on whomever it falls

"But whomever that stone falls on." This third metaphor speaks about the Messiah judging those who reject him as if he were a large stone that would crush them. (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metaphor]])