# Connecting Statement:

This is the beginning of the next event in this part of the story. Some time has passed since Jesus was questioned in the temple by the chief priests. The spies are now questioning Jesus.

# They asked him

"The spies asked Jesus"

# Teacher, we know ... way of God

The spies were trying to deceive Jesus. They did not believe these things about Jesus.

# we know

"we" refers only to the spies. (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-exclusive]])

# are not influenced by anyone's position

Possible meanings are 1) "you tell the truth even if important people do not like it" or 2) "you do not favor one person over another" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-activepassive]])

# but you teach the truth about the way of God

This is part of what the spies were saying that they knew about Jesus.

# Is it lawful ... or not?

They hoped that Jesus would say either "yes" or "no." If he said "yes," then the Jewish people would be angry with him for telling them to pay taxes to a foreign government. If he said "no," then the religious leaders could tell the Romans that Jesus was teaching the people to break the Roman laws.

# Is it lawful

They were asking about God's law, not about Caesar's law. AT: "Does our law permit us"

# Caesar

Because Caesar was the ruler of the Roman government, they could refer to the Roman government by Caesar's name. (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metonymy]])

# translationWords

* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/teacher]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/true]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/god]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/lawful]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/tax]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/names/caesar]]