# Connecting Statement:

Jesus begins to answer the Sadducees.

# The sons of this world

"The people of this world" or "The people of this time." This is in contrast with those in heaven or the people who live after the resurrection.

# marry and are given in marriage

In that culture they spoke of men marrying women and women being given in marriage to their husband. This can also be stated in active form. AT: "get married" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-explicit]] and [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-activepassive]])

# those who are regarded as worthy in that age

This can be stated in active form. AT: "the people in that age whom God will consider to be worthy" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-activepassive]])

# to receive the resurrection from the dead

"to be raised from the dead" or "to rise from death"

# from the dead

From among all those who have died. This expression describes all dead people together in the underworld. To receive resurrection from among them speaks of becoming alive again.

# will neither marry nor be given in marriage

In that culture they spoke of men marrying women and women being given in marriage to their husband. This can also be stated in active form. AT: "will not marry" or "will not get married." This is after the resurrection. (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-explicit]] and [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-activepassive]])

# Neither can they die anymore

This is after the resurrection. AT: "They will not be able to die anymore" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-explicit]])

# are sons of God, being sons of the resurrection

"are children of God because he has brought them back from the dead"

# translationWords

* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/son]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/world]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/worthy]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/resurrection]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/death]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/angel]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/sonsofgod]]