# Connecting Statement:

Jesus finishes answering the Sadducees.

# But that the dead are raised, even Moses showed

The word "even" is here because the Sadducees might not have been surprised that some scriptures say that the dead are raised, but they did not expect Moses to have written something like that. AT: "But even Moses showed that dead people rise from the dead" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-activepassive]])

# the dead are raised

Here the word "raised" is an idiom for "caused to live again." This can be stated in active form. AT: "the dead are caused to live again" or "God causes the dead to live again" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-idiom]] and [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-activepassive]])

# in the place concerning the bush

"in the part of scripture where he wrote about the burning bush" or "in the scripture about the burning bush" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-explicit]])

# where he calls the Lord

"where Moses called the Lord"

# the God of Abraham and the God of Isaac and the God of Jacob

"the God of Abraham, Isaac, and Jacob." They all worshiped the same God.

# Now

This word is used here to mark a break in the main teaching. Here Jesus explains how this story proves that people rise from the dead.

# he is not the God of the dead, but of the living

These two sentences have similar meaning said twice for emphasis. Some languages have different ways of showing emphasis. AT: "the Lord is the God of living people only" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-parallelism]])

# but of the living

"but the God of living people." Since these people died physically, they must still be alive spiritually. AT: "but the God of people whose spirits are alive, even though their bodies may have died" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-explicit]])

# because all live to him

"because in God's sight they all are still alive" or "because their spirits are alive in God's presence"

# translationWords

* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/death]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/raise]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/names/moses]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/lord]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/names/abraham]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/names/isaac]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/names/jacob]]