# General Information:

Jesus asks the scribes a question.

# How do they say ... son?

"Why do they say ... son?" Jesus uses a question to make the scribes think about who the Messiah is. AT: "Let's think about them saying ... son." or "I will talk about them saying ... son" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-rquestion]])

# they say

The prophets, the religious rulers, and the Jewish people in general knew that the Messiah was the son of David. AT: "everyone says" or "people say" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-explicit]])

# David's son

"King David's descendant." The word "son" is used here to refer to a descendant. In this case it refers to the one who would reign over God's kingdom. (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-synecdoche]])

# The Lord said to my Lord

This is a quotation from the book of Psalms which says "Yahweh said to my Lord." But the Jews stopped saying "Yahweh" and often said "Lord" instead. AT: "The Lord God said to my Lord" or "God said to my Lord"

# my Lord

David was referring to the Christ as "my Lord."

# Sit at my right hand

To sit at the "right hand of God" is a symbolic action of receiving great honor and authority from God. AT: "Sit in the place of honor beside me" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/translate-symaction]])

# until I make your enemies your footstool

The Messiah's enemies are spoken of as if they were furniture on which he would rest his feet. This was an image of submission. AT: "until I make your enemies like a footstool for you" or "until I conquer your enemies for you" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metaphor]])

# David therefore calls the Christ 'Lord'

In the culture of that time, a father was more respected than a son. David's us of the title 'Lord' for the Christ implies that he was greater than David. (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-explicit]])

# so how is he David's son?

"so how can the Christ be David's son?" This can be a statement. AT: "this shows that the Christ is not merely David's descendant" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-rquestion]])

# translationWords

* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/christ]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/names/david]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/son]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/psalm]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/lord]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/righthand]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/adversary]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/footstool]]