# General Information:

Parallelism is common in Hebrew poetry. (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/writing-poetry]] and [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-parallelism]])

# For the chief musician

"This is for the director of music to use in worship"

# A psalm of David

Possible meanings are 1) David wrote the psalm or 2) the psalm is about David or 3) the psalm is in the style of David's psalms.

# In you, Yahweh, I take refuge

Going to Yahweh for protection is spoken of as taking refuge in him. AT: "I go to you, Yahweh, for protection" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metaphor]])

# never let me be humiliated

This can be stated in active form. AT: "do not let others humiliate me" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-activepassive]])

# be my rock of refuge, a stronghold to save me

The phrase "be my rock of refuge" is a request for protection. The second phrase emphasizes the first phrase. (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-parallelism]])

# my rock of refuge

Yahweh is spoke of as if he were a huge rock that would protect the writer from attack. AT: "like a huge rock on which I can be safe" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metaphor]])

# a stronghold to save me

Yahweh is spoken of as if he were a strong fortress in which the writer would be protected from his enemies. (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metaphor]])

# translationWords

* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/chief]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/psalm]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/names/david]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/yahweh]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/refuge]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/righteous]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/stronghold]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/save]]