# Into your hands

God is spirit, but he is here spoken of as if he has hands. Here "your hands" refers to Yahweh's care. AT: "Into your care" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-personification]] and [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metonymy]])

# I entrust my spirit

Here "my spirit" refers to the writer. AT: "I place myself" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-synecdoche]])

# God of trustworthiness

"you are a God I can trust"

# I hate those who serve worthless idols

Here the word "worthless" refers to all idols. This can be clarified in translation. AT: "Idols are worthless. I hate those who serve them" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-distinguish]])

# I will be glad and rejoice in your covenant faithfulness

The words "glad" and "rejoice" share similar meanings and emphasize the intensity of joy. The abstract noun "faithfulness" can be translated as an adjective. AT: "I will be very glad because you are faithful to your covenant" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-doublet]] and [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-abstractnouns]])

# you saw my affliction ... you knew the distress of my soul

Both of these phrases express the idea that God knows about the writer's troubles. (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-parallelism]])

# the distress of my soul

Here "my soul" refers to the writer. AT: "my distress" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-synecdoche]])

# translationWords

* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/hand]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/spirit]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/redeem]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/god]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/trust]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/serve]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/worthy]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/idol]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/rejoice]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/covenantfaith]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/afflict]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/soul]]