# General Information:

Yahweh tells Ezekiel what to say to the people of Ammon.

# Hear the word of the Lord Yahweh

"Listen to this message from the Lord Yahweh"

# you said, "Aha!"

"you cheered." The word "Aha" is a sound people make when they are happy about something. In this case the people were happy because bad things happened to Israel and Judah.

# over my sanctuary when it was profaned

This can be stated in active form. AT: "against my sanctuary when the enemy army profaned it" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-activepassive]])

# against the land ... against the house

"over the land ... over the house"

# the house of Judah

The word "house" is a metonym for the family that lives in the house, in this case the descendants of Judah over many years. See how you translated these words in [Ezekiel 3:1](../03/01.md). AT: "the Judah people group" or "the people of Judah" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metonymy]])

# behold

"indeed." The word "behold" here adds emphasis to what follows.

# I am giving you to a people in the east as their possession

This speaks of the enemy army conquering the land of Ammon and taking possession of the land and everything in it as if the enemy were taking the people of Ammon as their possession. It is not implied here that the enemy took the people of Ammon as slaves. AT: "I will cause an army from a land that is east of you to come and conquer you" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metaphor]])

# They will set up camp against you and set up their tents among you

"They will set up tents and live in your country"

# They will eat your fruit and they will drink your milk

It may be helpful to specify the source of the fruit and milk. AT: "They will eat the fruit from your trees and drink the milk from your cattle" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-explicit]])

# the people of Ammon a field for flocks

Here the phrase "the people of Ammon" refers to the land that belonged to the people of Ammon. Also, the understood information at the beginning of this phrase may be supplied. AT: "I will make the rest of the land of Ammon a field for flocks" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metonymy]] and [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-ellipsis]])

# know that I am Yahweh

When Yahweh says that people will know that he is Yahweh, he is implying that they will know that he is the one true God who has supreme authority and power. See how you translated this in [Ezekiel 6:7](../06/06.md). AT: "understand that I am Yahweh, the one true God" or "realize that I, Yahweh, have supreme power and authority" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-explicit]])