# Moab and Seir

These places refer to the people who live in them. AT: "the people of Moab and Seir" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metonymy]])

# Behold! The house of Judah is like

"Look at the house of Judah. It is like"

# The house of Judah is

The word "house" is a metonym for the family that lives in the house, in this case the descendants of Judah over many years. See how you translated these words in [Ezekiel 3:1](../03/01.md). AT: "The Judah people group are" or "The people of Judah are" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metonymy]])

# behold! I will open

"look! I will open" or "listen! I will open" or "pay attention to what I am about to tell you! I will open"

# I will open the slopes of Moab, starting at his cities on the border

This means that he will destroy the cities on the border of Moab first to clear the way for the army to attack Moab itself. AT: "I will open the path to Moab by destroying the cities on its border" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-explicit]])

# starting at his cities

Here the city of Moab is spoken of with the masculine pronoun "his." AT: "starting at its cities" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-personification]])

# the splendor of Beth Jeshimoth, Baal Meon, and Kiriathaim

"I will start at the great cities of Beth Jeshimoth, Baal Meon, and Kiriathaim." These three places are cities. (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/translate-names]])

# to the people of the east who have been against the people of Ammon

"I will send the same army from the people in the east who attacked Ammon"

# I will give them up as a possession

Here Yahweh speaks of allowing the armies from the east to conquer Ammon as if Ammon were a possession that he was giving them. AT: "I will allow the armies to conquer them" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metaphor]])

# so that the people of Ammon will not be remembered among the nations

This can be stated in active form. AT: "so that the nations will not remember the people of Ammon" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-activepassive]])

# translationWords

* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/names/moab]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/splendor]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/judge]]