# General Information:

This continues the prophecy about the people of Moab. God describes events that will happen in the future as if it is happening in the present. Verse one is probably what God says the rulers of Moab will say to each other. (See: [Isaiah 15:1-2](../15/01.md))

# Send rams to the ruler of the land

The Moabites will send rams to the king of Judah so that he might protect them from the enemy army. (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/translate-symaction]])

# Selah

This is the name of a city. (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/translate-names]])

# the daughter of Zion

The "daughter" of a city means the people of the city. See how you translated this in [Isaiah 1:8](../01/07.md). AT: "the people of Zion" or "the people who live in Zion" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-idiom]])

# As wandering birds, as a scattered nest, so the women of Moab are at the fords of the Arnon River

All the people of Moab, which includes the women, are forced to flee from their homes. AT: "Like birds without a home, the women of Moab will flee across the river to another land" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-simile]])

# As wandering birds, as a scattered nest

These two phrases mean basically the same thing. (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-doublet]])

# translationWords

* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/send]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/ruler]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/desert]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/zion]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/moab]]