# General Information:

Isaiah continues describing the people after God restores righteous rulers in Judah. (See: [Isaiah 32:1-3](./01.md))

# The rash ... the stutterer

This refers to people who act rashly and people who stutter. AT: "The rash person ... the stuttering person" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-nominaladj]])

# The fool will no longer be called honorable

This can be stated in active form. AT: "No one will give honor to the fool" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-activepassive]])

# For the fool speaks folly, and his heart plans evil

"The fool" refers to foolish people. Also, "folly" and "evil" may be expressed as adjectives. AT: "For the foolish person says foolish things and his heart plans evil things" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-nominaladj]] and [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-abstractnouns]])

# his heart plans evil

Here the foolish person is referred to by his heart to emphasize his inner thoughts. AT: "he plans evil things in his heart" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-synecdoche]])

# nor the deceiver called principled

This can be stated in active form. "The deceiver" refers to a person who is deceptive. AT: "nor will anyone show respect to the person who deceives" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-activepassive]] and [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-nominaladj]])

# He makes

The word "he" refers to the foolish person.

# the hungry empty

"The hungry" refers to hungry people. They are hungry because they have empty stomachs. AT: "the hungry person have an empty stomach" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-nominaladj]] and [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-explicit]])

# the thirsty he causes to lack drink

"The thirsty" refers to people who are thirsty. AT: "he causes the thirsty person to have nothing to drink" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-nominaladj]])

# translationWords

* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/foolish]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/honor]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/deceive]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/heart]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/yahweh]]