# General Information:

Isaiah continues speaking.

# For the palace will be forsaken, the crowded city will be deserted

This can be stated in active form. AT: "For the people will forsake the palace and the crowds will abandon the city" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-activepassive]])

# the hill

This refers to the fort built on the top of the hill. AT: "the fort on the hill" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metonymy]])

# the hill and the watchtower will become caves

This speaks of the fort and the watchtower being abandoned as if they became caves. AT: "the hill and the watchtower will become abandoned and empty" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-explicit]])

# a joy of wild donkeys, a pasture of flocks

This means the these animals will enjoy the grass that grows among the abandon fort and watchtower. AT: "the wild donkeys and the flocks of sheep will eat the grass there" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-explicit]])

# forever

This is an exaggeration for a very long time. AT: "an extremely long time" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-hyperbole]])

# until the Spirit is poured

This can be stated in active form. AT: "until Yahweh pours the Spirit" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-activepassive]])

# the Spirit is poured on us

This speaks of Yahweh giving him Spirit to his people as if his Spirit were a liquid that he would pour on them. AT: "the Spirit is given to us" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metaphor]])

# from on high

Here heaven is referred to as "on high." AT: "from heaven" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metonymy]])

# the fruitful field is considered as a forest

This can be written in active form. This compares how overly bountiful the fruitful fields are by comparing them to a thick, dense forest. AT: "people will say that the fruitful fields have grown thick like a forest" or "the fruitful fields will be overly bountiful" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-activepassive]] and [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-simile]])

# translationWords

* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/forsaken]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/watchtower]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/forever]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/donkey]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/flock]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/holyspirit]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/desert]]