# Connecting Statement:

From here into the next chapter, John writes about fellowship—close relationships with God and other believers.

# General Information:

Here the words "we" and "us" refer to all believers, including the people to whom John was writing. Unless otherwise stated, that is the meaning for the remainder of this book. (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-inclusive]])

# God is light

This is a metaphor that means that God is perfectly pure and holy. Cultures that associate goodness with light may be able to keep the idea of light without explaining the metaphor. AT: "God is purely righteous like pure light" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metonymy]])

# in him there is no darkness at all

This is a metaphor that means that God never sins and is not evil in any way. Cultures that associate evil with darkness may be able to keep the idea of darkness without explaining the metaphor. AT: "in him there is nothing that is evil" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metaphor]])

# walk in darkness

Here "walk" is a metaphor for how a person lives or behaves. Here "darkness" is a metaphor for "evil." AT: "do what is evil" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metaphor]])

# walk in the light as he is in the light

Here "walk" is a metaphor for how a person lives or behaves. Here "light" is a metaphor for "good" or "right." AT: "do what is good as God is perfectly good" or "do what is right as God is perfectly right" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metaphor]])

# the blood of Jesus

This refers to the death of Jesus. (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metonymy]])

# Son

This is an important title for Jesus, the Son of God. (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/guidelines-sonofgodprinciples]])

# translationWords

* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/god]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/light]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/darkness]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/fellowship]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/walk]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/true]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/blood]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/sonofgod]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/clean]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/sin]]