# General Information:

See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/writing-poetry]] and [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-parallelism]]

# It came about

"It happened." This phrase is used here to mark the beginning of a new part of the story. If your language has a way for doing this, you could consider using it here.

# in the fourth year of Jehoiakim ... king of Judah

Jehoiakim had been king of Judah for more than three years. See how you translated this in [Jeremiah 25:1](../25/01.md). (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/translate-ordinal]])

# that this word

The phrase "this word" refers to the message that follows.

# to Jeremiah

It is not clear why Jeremiah is referring to himself by name here. You may translate using first person, as the UDB does. (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-123person]])

# he said

"Yahweh said"

# every nation

"all of the nations"

# I have told from

"I have told you from"

# from the days of Josiah until this very day

"from the time Josiah was king until today"

# Perhaps the people

"It is possible that the people"

# to bring on them

"to cause to happen to them"

# his wicked way

Yahweh speaks of a person's lifestyle as if it were a "way" or path along which the person walks. See how you translated this in [Jeremiah 18:11](../18/11.md). AT: "his wicked way of living" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metaphor]])

# forgive their iniquity and their sin

The words "iniquity" and "sin" are metonyms for the persons who commit iniquity and sin. AT: "forgive them for their iniquity and their sin" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metonymy]])

# translationWords

* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/biblicaltimeyear]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/names/jehoiakim]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/names/josiah]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/king]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/names/kingdomofjudah]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/wordofgod]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/names/jeremiah]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/yahweh]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/scroll]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/word]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/names/kingdomofisrael]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/nation]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/biblicaltimeday]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/peoplegroup]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/turn]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/evil]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/forgive]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/iniquity]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/sin]]