# General Information:

Parallelism is common in Hebrew poetry. (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/writing-poetry]] and [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-parallelism]])

# General Information:

In this psalm the word "you" refers to Doeg. When Saul wanted to kill David, Doeg told Saul where David was so that Saul could find him.

# For the chief musician

"This is for the director of music to use in worship."

# A maschil

This may refer to a style of music. See how you translated this in [Psalms 32:1](../032/001.md).

# Doeg ... Ahimelech

These are the names of men. (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/translate-names]])

# Why are you proud of making trouble, you mighty man?

This question shows how angry David was at the one who made trouble. AT: "You should not be so proud of making trouble, you mighty man." (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-rquestion]])

# you mighty man

David may have been using irony when he called Doeg this. AT: "you, who think you are so mighty" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-irony]])

# The covenant faithfulness of God comes every day

David speaks of God's covenant faithfulness as if it were something that could come. David was probably referring to God's promises to protect his people from wicked people. The abstract noun "faithfulness" can be translated as an adjective or an adverb. AT: "Every day, God is faithful to keep the promises of his covenant" or "Every day, God faithfully protects his people from wicked people like you" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metaphor]] and [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-explicit]] and [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-abstractnouns]])

# a sharp razor

a sharp blade

# Your tongue plans destruction like a sharp razor, working deceitfully

Here the tongue is compared to a sharp razor which is capable of causing great harm. AT: "Your tongue harms people like a sharp razor does, when you plan destruction and deceive others" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-simile]])

# Your tongue

Here "your tongue" refers to the person David is speaking to. AT: "You" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-synecdoche]])

# translationWords

* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/names/david]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/names/edom]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/names/saul]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/house]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/proud]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/trouble]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/mighty]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/covenantfaith]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/god]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/tongue]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/deceive]]