# Zedekiah king of Judah had imprisoned him

It might be best to translate so that the reader understands that other people helped Zedekiah do this. (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metonymy]])

# had imprisoned him

Here "him" refers to Jeremiah. It is not clear why Jeremiah is referring to himself by name here. You may translate using first person, as the UDB does. (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-123person]])

# Why do you prophesy and say

Zekekiah uses a question to rebuke Jeremiah. AT: "It is wrong for you to continue prophesying and saying" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-rquestion]])

# I am about to give over this city into the hand of the king of Babylon

Yahweh speaks of the city as if it were a small object that one person could give to another. The word "hand" is a metonym for the power or control that the hand exercises. AT: "I am about to put this city under the control of the king of Babylon" or "I am about to allow the king of Babylon to do whatever he wants with this city" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metaphor]] and [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metonymy]])

# he will capture it

It might be best to translate so that the reader understands that other people would help the king of Babylon take control of the city.

# he will certainly be given into the hand of the king of Babylon

The word "hand" is a metonym for the power or control that the hand exercises. This can be stated in active form. AT: "I will certainly put him under the control of the king of Babylon" or "I will certainly allow the king of Babylon to do whatever he wants with him" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metonymy]] and [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-activepassive]])

# His mouth will speak to the king's mouth, and his eyes will see the king's eyes

Here "mouth" and "eyes" represent the whole person. AT: "Zedekiah himself will see and directly speak with Nebuchadnezzar" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-synecdoche]])

# this is Yahweh's declaration

Yahweh speaks of himself by name to express the certainty of what he is declaring. See how you translated this in [Jeremiah 1:8](../01/07.md). AT: "this is what Yahweh has declared" or "this is what I, Yahweh, have declared" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-123person]])

# you fight

Here "you" is plural and refers to the people in Jerusalem. (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-you]])

# translationWords

* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/hand]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/chaldeans]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/declare]]