# General Information:

Jeremiah continues speaking. He begins a long prayer, a lament with a long introduction of praise.

# the receipt of purchase

This means the sealed scroll and the unsealed scroll.

# Woe, Lord Yahweh! Look!

The word "woe" here indicates that in this prayer Jeremiah is sad, complaining or lamenting. The word "look" here indicates that the next words are an introduction or background for the most important part of the prayer. (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/writing-background]])

# by your great strength and with your raised arm

The phrase "raised arm" is a metonym for the strength of the arm, so the words "your great strength" and "your raised arm" form a doublet. AT: "by your great power" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metonymy]] and [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-doublet]])

# You show covenant faithfulness to thousands

The abstract noun "faithfulness" can be stated as "faithful" or "faithfully." AT: "You are faithful to your covenant towards thousands" or "You keep your promise and faithfully love thousands" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-abstractnouns]])

# pour the guilt of men into the laps of their children after them

The word "guilt" is a metonym for Yahweh punishing people because they are guilty of doing evil things. Yahweh punishing people is spoken of as if he were pouring a large container full of liquid or small objects into people's laps as they sit. AT: "you punish children for the sins of their parents" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metonymy]] and [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metaphor]])

# translationWords

* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/pray]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/lordyahweh]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/heaven]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/earth]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/covenantfaith]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/guilt]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/children]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/mighty]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/name]]