# Then fields will be bought in this land

This can be translated in active form. AT: "Then people will buy fields in this land" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-activepassive]])

# you are saying

Here "you" refers to the people of Israel. (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-you]])

# It has been given into the hand of the Chaldeans

Here "hand" is a metonym for power or control. This can be translated in active form. AT: "Yahweh has given it to the Chaldeans" or "Yahweh has given the Chaldeans power over it" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metonymy]] and [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-activepassive]])

# write in sealed scrolls. They will assemble witnesses

The "sealed scrolls" are the deeds that a person would sign to purchase land. Other people would be witnesses to confirm the purchase.

# I will bring back their fortunes

"I will cause things to go well for them again" or "I will cause them to live well again." See how similar words are translated in [Jeremiah 29:14](../29/12.md).

# this is Yahweh's declaration

Yahweh speaks of himself by name to express the certainty of what he is declaring. See how you translated this in [Jeremiah 1:8](../01/07.md). AT: "this is what Yahweh has declared" or "this is what I, Yahweh, have declared" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-123person]])

# translationWords

* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/ruin]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/beast]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/chaldeans]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/silver]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/scroll]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/witness]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/benjamin]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/jerusalem]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/kingdomofjudah]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/negev]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/yahweh]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/declare]]