# General Information:

Parallelism is common in Hebrew poetry. (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/writing-poetry]] and [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-parallelism]])

# A psalm of David

Possible meanings are 1) David wrote the psalm or 2) the psalm is about David or 3) the psalm is in the style of David's psalms.

# my rock

Possible meanings are 1) "the one who keeps me safe" or 2) "the one who gives me strength" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metaphor]])

# who trains my hands for war and my fingers for battle

The words "hands" and "fingers" are synecdoches for "me." If "war" and "battle" are the same word in your language, you can translate this as one line. AT: "who trains me for war and trains me for battle" or "who trains me for war" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-synecdoche]] and [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-doublet]] and [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-ellipsis]])

# my covenant faithfulness

The abstract noun "faithfulness" can be translated with anadverb. Possible meanings are 1) "the one who faithfully loves me" or 2) "the one who faithfully protects me." (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-abstractnouns]])

# my fortress ... take refuge

The psalmist uses many metaphors to emphasize that Yahweh will protect him. (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metaphor]])

# my high tower

David speaks of Yahweh as if he were a fortress that protects him from attack. Yahweh is the one who protects David from harm. (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metaphor]])

# my shield

David speaks of Yahweh as if he were a shield that protects a soldier. Yahweh is the one who protects David from harm. See how this is translated in [Psalms 18:2](../018/002.md). (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metaphor]])

# the one in whom I take refuge

Going to Yahweh for protection is spoken of as taking refuge in him. AT: "the one to whom I go so he will protect me" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metaphor]])

# the one who subdues nations under me

"the one who enables me to defeat other nations"