# Is there not a woman among the daughters of your relatives, or among all our people?

They ask this question to suggest that they could find Samson a wife among their own people. This question can be written as a statement. AT: "Surely there are women among your people whom you could marry." (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-rquestion]])

# the daughters of your relatives

The word "daughter" is a polite way to refer to a young, unmarried woman. AT: "one of the unmarried women among your relatives" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-euphemism]])

# Are you going to take a wife from the uncircumcised Philistines?

This question is asked to rebuke Samson. This question can be written as a statement. You can make explicit the reason his parents do not want him to marry a Philistine. AT: "You really should not marry a Philistine woman because the Philistine people do not worship Yahweh." (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-rquestion]] and [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-explicit]])

# Get her for me

This is an idiom. Samson was demanding his parents to speak to the Philistine woman's parents about marriage. AT: "Now arrange for her to be my wife" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-idiom]])

# she pleases me

This means that Samson thinks she is beautiful. "I am pleased by how beautiful she is" or "she is beautiful" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-explicit]])

# this matter

This refers to Samson's request to marry the Philistine woman.

# for he desired to create a conflict

The word "he" refers to Yahweh.

# translationWords

* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/uncircumcised]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/names/philistines]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/names/samson]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/yahweh]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/ruler]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/israel]]