# General Information:

The apostle James writes this letter to all the Christians. Many of them were Jews, and they lived in many different places.

# James, a servant of God and of the Lord Jesus Christ

The phrase "this letter is from" is implied. AT: "This letter is from James, a servant of God and of the Lord Jesus Christ" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-explicit]])

# to the twelve tribes

Possible meanings are 1) this is a synecdoche for Jewish Christians, or 2) this is a metaphor for all Christians. AT: "to God's faithful people" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-synecdoche]] and [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metaphor]])

# in the dispersion

The term "dispersion" normally referred to the Jews who were scattered in other countries, away from their homeland Israel. This abstract noun can be expressed with a phrase with the verb "scattered." AT: "who are scattered around the world" or "who live in other countries" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-abstractnouns]])

# Greetings!

a basic greeting, such as "Hello!" or "Good day!"

# Consider it all joy, my brothers, when you experience various troubles

"My fellow believers, think of all your different kinds of troubles as something to celebrate"

# the testing of your faith produces endurance

The expressions "the testing," "your faith," and "endurance" are nouns that stand for actions. God does the testing, that is, he finds out how much the believers trust and obey him. Believers ("you") believe in him and endure suffering. AT: "when you suffer hardships, God is finding out how much you trust him. As a result, you will become able to endure even more hardships" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-abstractnouns]])

# translationWords

* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/jamesbrotherofjesus]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/servant]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/god]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/lordgod]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/jesus]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/12tribesofisrael]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/joy]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/brother]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/test]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/faith]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/endure]]