# the poor brother

"the believer who does not have much money"

# boast of his high position

Someone whom God has honored is spoken of as if he were standing in a high place. (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metaphor]])

# but the rich man of his low position

The words "let boast" are understood from the previous phrase. AT: "but let the rich man boast of his low position" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-ellipsis]])

# but the rich man

"but the man who has a lot of money." Possible meanings are 1) the rich man is a believer or 2) the rich man is an unbeliever.

# of his low position

A rich believer should be happy if God causes him to suffer. AT: "should be happy that God has given him difficulties" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-ellipsis]])

# he will pass away as a wild flower in the grass

Rich people are spoken of as being similar to wild flowers, which are alive for only a short time. (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-simile]])

# its beauty perishes

A flower no longer being beautiful is spoken of as if its beauty dies. AT: "and it is no longer beautiful" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metaphor]])

# the rich man will fade away in the middle of his journey

Here the flower simile is probably continued. As flowers do not die suddenly but instead fade away over a short time, so also the rich people may not die suddenly but instead take a little time to disappear. (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-simile]])

# in the middle of his journey

A rich man's activities in daily life are spoken of as if they are a journey that he is making. This metaphor implies that he is giving no thought to his coming death, and that it will takes him by surprise. (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metaphor]])