# You know this

Possible meanings are 1) "Know this" as a command, to pay attention to what I am about to write or 2) "You know this" as a statement, that I am about to remind you of something that you already know.

# Let every man be quick to hear, slow to speak

These sayings are idioms that mean people should first listen intently, and then consider carefully what they say. Here "slow to speak" does not mean speaking slowly. (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-idiom]])

# slow to anger

"not get angry quickly"

# the anger of man does not work the righteousness of God

When a person is always angry, he cannot do God's work, which is righteous.

# take off all sinful filth and abundant amounts of evil

Sin and evil are spoken of here as if they were clothing that could be taken off. AT: "stop doing all filthy sins and stop doing abundant amounts of evil" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metaphor]])

# take off all sinful filth and abundant amounts of evil

Here the expressions "sinful filth" and "evil" share similar meanings. James uses them to emphasize how bad sin is. AT: "stop doing every kind of sinful behavior" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-doublet]])

# sinful filth

Here "filth," that is, dirt, stands for sin and evil. (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metaphor]])

# In humility

"Without pride" or "Without arrogance"

# receive the implanted word

The expression "implant" means to place one thing inside of another. Here God's word is spoken of as if it were a plant made to grow inside believers. AT: "obey the message God has spoken to you" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metaphor]])

# receive the implanted word

Here "word," is a synecdoche for the message of salvation that God speaks to believers. When they believe it, God saves them. (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-synecdoche]])

# save your souls

What a person is saved from can be made explicit. AT: "save you from God's judgment" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-explicit]])

# your souls

Here the word "souls" refers to persons.AT: "yourselves" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-synecdoche]])

# translationWords

* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/beloved]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/brother]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/righteous]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/god]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/sin]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/evil]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/humble]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/save]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/soul]]