# Shua's

This is the name of a man. See how you translated this name in [Genesis 38:2](./01.md). (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/translate-names]])

# Judah was comforted and

"When Judah was no longer grieving, he"

# his sheepshearers at Timnah

"Timnah, where his men were shearing sheep"

# Timnah ... Enaim

These are names of a places. (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/translate-names]])

# he and his friend Hirah the Adullamite

"His friend Hiram, from Adullam, went with him"

# Hirah the Adullamite

"Hiram" is the name of a man, and "Adullam" is the name of a village where he lived. See how you translated this name in [Genesis 38:1](./01.md). (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/translate-names]])

# Tamar was told

This can be stated in active form. AT: "Someone told Tamar" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-activepassive]])

# Look, your father-in-law

"Listen." Here the word "look" is used to get Tamar attention.

# your father-in-law

"your husband's father"

# of her widowhood

"that widows wear"

# veil

a very thin material used to cover a woman's head and face

# wrapped herself

This means that she hid herself with her clothing so that people would not recognize her. Traditionally, part of women's clothing were large pieces of cloth they wrapped themselves with. AT: "wrapped herself in her clothing so that people would not recognize her" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-explicit]])

# by the road

"along the road" or "on the way"

# she had not been given to him as a wife

This can be stated in active form. AT: "Judah had not given her to Shelah as a wife" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-activepassive]])