# It came about

This phrase is used here to mark the beginning of a new part of the story. (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/writing-newevent]])

# it was told to Judah

This can be stated in active form. AT: "someone told Judah" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-activepassive]])

# Tamar your daughter-in-law

"Tamar, your oldest son's wife"

# she is pregnant by it

Here the word "it" refers to the "prostitution" that she committed. This can be stated in active form. AT: "it has made her pregnant" or "she is pregnant" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-activepassive]])

# Bring her here

"Bring her out"

# let her be burned

This can be stated in active form. AT: "we will burn her to death" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-activepassive]])

# When she was brought out

This can be stated in active form. AT: "When they brought her out" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-activepassive]])

# her father-in-law

"her husband's father"

# seal and cords and staff

A "seal" is similar to a coin with a design engraved on it, used to make an impression in melted wax. The "cord" was put through the seal so the owner could wear it around his neck. A staff was long wooden stick that helped in walking over rough ground. See how you translated this in [Genesis 38:18](./17.md).

# Shelah

This is the name of one of Judah's sons. See how you translated this name in [Genesis 38:5](./03.md). (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/translate-names]])

# translationWords

* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/names/tamar]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/prostitute]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/sex]]