# Connecting Statement:

The rest of chapter 15 and 16 is about the kings of Israel. These events happened while King Asa of Judah was still alive.

# the second year of Asa king of Judah

This refers to the second year of Asa's reign. The meaning of this can be made clear. AT: "when Asa had been king of Judah for almost two years" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-explicit]])

# he reigned over Israel two years

"Nadab reigned over Israel two years"

# what was evil in the sight of Yahweh

The sight of Yahweh represents Yahweh's judgment. AT: "what was evil in Yahweh's judgment" or "what Yahweh considers to be evil" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metaphor]])

# walked in the way of his father

Walking here represents behaving. AT: "did the same things that his father had done" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metaphor]])

# in his own sin

Walking in his own sin represents sinning in ways that were different from the ways that his father had sinned. AT: "he sinned in his own ways" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metaphor]])

# by which he led Israel to sin

Leading people to do something represents influencing them to do it. AT: "and by sinning, he influenced Israel to sin" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metaphor]])

# translationWords

* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/jeroboam]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/reign]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/kingdomofisrael]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/asa]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/evil]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/yahweh]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/walk]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/sin]]