# Have you suffered so many things for nothing ... ?

Paul uses this question to remind the Galatians that when they were suffering, they believed that they would receive some benefit. AT: "Surely you did not think that you were suffering so many things for nothing ... !" or "Surely you knew that there was some good purpose for suffering so many things ... !" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-rquestion]])

# Have you suffered so many things for nothing

It can be stated clearly that they had suffered these things because of people who opposed them for their faith in Christ. AT: "Have you suffered so many things by those who opposed you for your faith in Christ for nothing" or "You believed in Christ, and you suffered many things by those who oppose Christ. Were your belief and suffering for nothing" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-explicit]])

# for nothing

"uselessly" or "without the hope of receiving something good"

# if indeed it was for nothing?

Possible meanings are 1) Paul uses this rhetorical question to warn them not to let their experiences be for nothing. AT: "Do not let it be for nothing!" or "Do not stop believing in Jesus Christ and let your suffering be for nothing." or 2) Paul uses this question to assure them that their suffering was not for nothing. AT: "It was certainly not for nothing!" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-rquestion]])

# Does he ... do so by the works of the law, or by hearing with faith?

Paul asks another rhetorical question to remind the Galatians how people receive the Spirit. AT: "He ... does not do it by the works of the law; he does it by hearing with faith." (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-rquestion]])

# by the works of the law

This represents people doing the works that the law requires. AT: "because you do what the law tells us to do"

# by hearing with faith

Your language may require that what the people heard and whom they trusted be stated explicitly. AT: "because you heard the message and had faith in Jesus" or "because you listened to the message and trusted in Jesus" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-explicit]])