# Connecting Statement:

Paul reminds the Galatian believers that even Abraham received righteousness by faith and not by the law.

# it was credited to him as righteousness

God saw Abraham's faith in God, so then God considered Abraham righteous.

# those of faith

"those who have faith." The meaning of the noun "faith" can be expressed with the verb "believe". AT: "those who believe" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-abstractnouns]])

# children of Abraham

This represents people whom God views as he viewed Abraham. AT: "righteous in the same way as Abraham" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metaphor]])

# foreseeing

Because God made the promise to Abraham and they wrote it down before the promise came through Christ, the scripture is like someone who knows the future before it happens. AT: "predicted" or "saw before it happened" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-personification]])

# In you

"Because of what you have done" or "Because I have blessed you." The word "you" refers to Abraham and is singular. (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-you]])

# all the nations

"all the people-groups in the world." God was emphasizing that he was not favoring only the Jewish people, his chosen group. His plan of salvation was for both Jews and non-Jews.

# translationWords

* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/abraham]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/believe]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/god]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/righteous]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/son]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/wordofgod]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/justify]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/gentile]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/faith]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/goodnews]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/proclaim]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/bless]]