# Connecting Statement:

Paul reminds those in Galatia that believers are free in God's family, not slaves under the law.

# we were held captive under the law, imprisoned

This can be stated in active form. AT: "the law held us captive and we were in prison" or "the law held us captive in prison" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-activepassive]])

# we were held captive under the law, imprisoned

The way the law controlled us is spoken of as if the law were a prison guard holding us as captives. AT: "the law controlled us like a prison guard" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metaphor]])

# until faith should be revealed

This can be stated in active form, and who this faith is in can be stated clearly. AT: "until God would reveal that he justifies those who have faith in Christ" or "until God would reveal that he justifies those who trust in Christ" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-activepassive]] and [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-explicit]])

# guardian

More than simply "one who gives oversight to a child," this was usually a slave who was responsible for enforcing rules and behaviors given by the parent and would report to the parent on the child's actions.

# until Christ came

"until the time when Christ came"

# so that we might be justified

Before Christ came, God had planned to justify us. When Christ came, he carried out his plan to justify us. This can be stated in active form. AT: "so that God would declare us to be righteous" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-activepassive]])

# translationWords

* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/faith]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/christ]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/lawofmoses]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/justify]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/son]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/jesus]]