# Connecting Statement:

For now John ends this section on the new birth and the new nature which cannot sin.

# Whoever has been born from God

This can be stated in active form. AT: "Whoever God has made his child" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-activepassive]])

# God's seed

This speaks of the Holy Spirit, whom God gives to believers and who makes them able to resist sin and do what pleases God as if he were a physical seed that is planted in the earth and grows. This is sometimes referred to as the new nature. AT: "the Holy Spirit" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metaphor]])

# he has been born of God

This can be stated in active form. AT: "God has given him new spiritual life" or "he is a child of God" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-activepassive]])

# In this the children of God and children of the devil are revealed

This can be stated in active form. AT: "This is how we know the children of God and the children of the devil" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-activepassive]])

# whoever does not do what is righteous is not from God, neither is the one who does not love his brother

The words "from God" are understood in the second part of the sentence. This can also be stated in positive form.  AT: "whoever does not do what is righteous is not from God; whoever does not love his brother is also not from God" or "those who do what is righteous are from God, and those who love their brothers are from God" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-doublenegatives]] and [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-ellipsis]])

# his brother

Here "brother" means fellow Christians.