# Then Asa brought the silver ... of the king's house, and sent it

Asa would have had his workers gather the gold and silver for him. AT: "Then Asa told his workers to take the silver ... of the king's house, and to take it" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metonymy]])

# Ben Hadad

This is the name of a man. (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/translate-names]])

# He said

This means he spoke by means of his servants. Asa told his servants what to say to Ben Hadad and they did. The meaning of this can be made clear. AT: "Asa told his servants to say to Ben Hadad" or "Through his servants, Asa said to Ben Hadad" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metonymy]] and [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-explicit]])

# Let there be a covenant between me and you ... between my father and your father

A covenant being between two people represents those two people having a covenant with each other. AT: "Let us have a covenant with each other ... with my father and your father" or "Let us make a peace treaty ... with my father and your father" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metaphor]])

# Look, I have sent

"As proof that I want a treaty with you, I have sent"

# Break your covenant with Baasha, king of Israel

Breaking a covenant represents canceling it and not doing what one has promised to do. AT: "Cancel your covenant with Baasha king of Israel" or "Do not be loyal to Baasha king of Israel as you promised in your covenant with him" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metaphor]])

# Break your covenant with Baasha, king of Israel

Asa wanted Ben Hadad to attack Israel. Ben Hadad could only do that if he broke his covenant with the king of Israel. The meaning of this statement can be made explicit. AT: "Break your covenant with Baasha, king of Israel, and attack Israel" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-explicit]])

# leave me alone

This is an idiom. Here Asa speaks of himself to represent himself along with his army. AT: "not attack me" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-idiom]] and [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-synecdoche]])

# translationWords

* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/silver]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/gold]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/storehouse]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/houseofgod]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/names/aram]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/names/damascus]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/father]]