# sent the commanders of his armies against the cities

Here Asa's armies are represented by their commanders. AT: "sent his armies to attack the cities" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-synecdoche]])

# Ijon, Dan, Abel Maim

These are the names of cities in Israel. (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/translate-names]])

# It came about that

This phrase is used here to mark an important event in the story. If your language has a way for doing this, you could consider using it here.

# he stopped building up Ramah, and let his work cease

Here Asa represents himself and his army. "his work" refers to other work that his workers were doing in Ramah. AT: "he commanded his army to stop fortifying Ramah and doing other work there" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-synecdoche]] and [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-ellipsis]])

# took all Judah

This refers to all the men who live in Judah. AT: "took all the men of Judah" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metonymy]])

# timbers

Timbers are large pieces of wood used to build houses or walls.

# Baasha had been

Here "Baasha" refers to his workers. AT: "Baasha's workers had been" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metonymy]])

# building up ... to build up

"fortifying ... to fortify"

# Then King Asa used

Here "King Asa" represents his workers. AT: "Then King Asa had his workers use" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metonymy]])

# Geba

This is the name of a city. (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/translate-names]])