# be enrolled as a widow

There seems to have been a list, written or not, of widows. The church members met these women's needs for shelter, clothing, and food, and these women were expected to devote their lives to serving the Christian community.

# who is not younger than sixty

As Paul will explain in 5:11-16, widows who were younger than 60 years old might get married again. Therefore the Christian community was to care only for widows who were older than 60. (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/translate-numbers]])

# a wife of one husband

Possible meanings are 1) she was always faithful to her husband or 2) she had not divorced her husband then married another man.

# She must be known for good deeds

This can be stated in active form. AT: "People must be able to attest to her good deeds" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-activepassive]])

# has been hospitable to strangers

"has welcomed strangers into her home"

# has washed the feet of the believers

Washing the dirty feet of people who have been walking in the dirt and mud is one way of meeting other people's needs and making life more enjoyable for them. This probably means she did humble work in general. AT: "has done common work to help other believers" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metonymy]])

# believers

Some versions translate "believers" here as "the saints" or "God's holy people." The essential idea is to refer to Christian believers.

# has relieved the afflicted

Here "the afflicted" is a nominal adjective that can be stated as an adjective. AT: "has helped those who are suffering" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-nominaladj]])

# has been devoted to every good work

"has given herself to doing all kinds of good deeds"