# the chosen angels

This means the angels whom God and Jesus have chosen to serve them in a special way.

# to keep these commands without partiality, and to do nothing out of favoritism

The words "partiality" and "favoritism" mean basically the same thing. Paul is emphasizing that Timothy must judge honestly and be fair to everyone. AT: "to keep these rules without being partial or showing favor to anyone" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-doublet]])

# these commands

Possible meanings are 1) this refers to the rules Paul just told Timothy or 2) this refers to the rules Paul is about to tell Timothy.

# Place hands

The placing of hands was a ceremony in which one or more church leaders would place their hands on people and pray that God would enable those people to serve the church in a way that would please God. Timothy was to wait until the person had shown good character for a long time before officially setting that person apart to serve the Christian community.

# Do not share in the sins of another person

Paul speaks of someone's sin as if it were an object that could be shared with others. AT: "do not join in another person's sin" or "do not participate when another person sins" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metaphor]])

# Do not share in the sins of another person

Possible meanings are 1) if Timothy chose someone who was guilty of sin to be a church worker, God would hold Timothy responsible for that person's sin or 2) Timothy should not commit sins he saw others committing.

# translationWords

* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/command]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/god]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/jesus]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/angel]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/favor]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/sin]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/purify]]