# You should no longer drink water

It is implied that Paul means Timothy should not drink only water. He is telling Timothy to use wine as medicine. The water in that area often caused sickness. (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-explicit]])

# The sins of some people are openly known

This can be stated in active form. AT: "The sins of some people are very obvious" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-activepassive]])

# they go before them into judgment

"their sins go before those people into judgment." Paul speaks of sins as if they were moving. Possible meanings are 1) Their sins are so obvious that everyone will know they are guilty even before anyone testifies against them or 2) Their sins are evident, and God judges them now. (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-personification]])

# But some sins follow later

"But some sins follow people later." Paul speaks of sins as if they were moving. Possible meanings are 1) Timothy and the Christian community will not know about certain sins until later or 2) God will not judge some sins until the final judgment. (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metaphor]])

# some good works are openly known

"some good works are obvious"

# good works

The works are considered "good" because they fit with God's character, purposes, and will.

# but even the others cannot be hidden

Paul speaks of sins as if they were objects that someone could hide. This can be stated in active form. AT: "but people will later find out about even the good deeds that are not obvious" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metaphor]] and [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-activepassive]])

# translationWords

* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/wine]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/sin]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/judge]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/good]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/works]]