# See

"Look" or "Listen." This word adds emphasis to what is said next. AT: "Pay attention to what I am about to tell you"

# I will raise up your skirt over your face and show your private parts to the nations

This refers to the practice of publicly humiliating prostitutes by stripping them naked in front of the community. This continues the metaphor of Yahweh speaking of the city of Nineveh as if it were a prostitute. AT: "I will publicly humiliate you, as one would humiliate a prostitute by raising up her skirt over her face and showing her private parts to all the people" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metaphor]])

# your shame to the kingdoms

This phrase explains the purpose of lifting up Nineveh's skirt. The verb may be supplied from the previous phrase. AT: "I will show your shame to the kingdoms" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-ellipsis]])

# I will throw disgusting filth on you

The words "disgusting filth" refer to all kinds of garbage. Throwing garbage at a person was a sign of strong contempt. AT: "I will show my contempt for you, like a person would throw disgusting filth at another" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/translate-symaction]])

# who will weep for her?

The people ask this rhetorical question to emphasize the negative answer. AT: "no one will weep for her." (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-rquestion]])

# Where can I find anyone to comfort you?

Yahweh uses this rhetorical question to emphasize that there will be no one who will be able to comfort Nineveh. AT: "There will be no one to comfort you." (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-rquestion]])

# translationWords

* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/yahwehofhosts]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/nation]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/kingdom]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/names/nineveh]]