# General Information:

Nahum continues to speak to the people of Nineveh as though they were the city itself. (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metonymy]])

# Yet Thebes was carried away

The word "Thebes" represents the people who lived in Thebes. This can be stated in active form. Alternate translation: "Yet those who attacked Thebes carried the people away" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metonymy]] and [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-activepassive]])

# she went into captivity

The word "she" refers to Thebes and represents the people who lived there. Alternate translation: "they went into captivity" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metonymy]])

# her young children were dashed in pieces

This is a brutal description of the soldiers killing children. This can be stated in active form. Alternate translation: "enemy soldiers dashed her young children to pieces" or "enemy soldiers beat her young children to death" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-activepassive]])

# at the head of every street

The beginning of a street is spoken of as if it were the head. Also, "every" is a generalization that means many places all over the city. Alternate translation: "on every street corner" or "in the streets all over the city" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metaphor]] and [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-hyperbole]])

# all her great men were bound in chains

This can be stated in active form. Alternate translation: "they bound all her great men in chains" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-activepassive]])

