# Connecting Statement:

This begins the account of a woman pouring expensive oil on Jesus before his death.

# Now

This word is used here to mark a break in the main story line. Here Matthew starts to tell a new part of the story.

# Simon the leper

It is implied that this is a man whom Jesus had healed from leprosy. (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-explicit]])

# he was reclining

"Jesus was lying on his side." You can use your language's word for the position people usually are in when they eat.

# a woman came to him

"a woman came to Jesus"

# alabaster jar

This is a costly container made of soft stone. (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/translate-unknown]])

# ointment

oil that has a pleasing smell

# she poured it upon his head

The woman does this to honor Jesus.

# What is the reason for this waste?

The disciples ask this question out of their anger over the woman's actions. AT: "This woman has done a bad thing by wasting this ointment!" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-rquestion]])

# This could have been sold for a large amount and given

This can be stated in active form. AT: "She could have sold this for a large amount of money and given the money" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-activepassive]])

# to the poor

Here "the poor" can be stated as an adjective. AT: "to poor people" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-nominaladj]])

# translationWords

* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/bethany]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/leprosy]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/disciple]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/angry]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/waste]]