# Connecting Statement:

Jesus continues to teach his disciples as they walk to the Mount of Olives.

# General Information:

In verse 31, Jesus quotes the prophet Zechariah to show that in order to fulfill prophecy, all of his disciples will leave him.

# hymn

a song of praise to God

# fall away

"leave me"

# for it is written

This can be stated in active form. AT: "for the prophet Zechariah wrote long ago in the scriptures" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-activepassive]])

# I will strike

Here "I" refers to God. It is implied that God will cause or allow people to harm and kill Jesus. (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-explicit]])

# the shepherd ... sheep of the flock

These are metaphors that refer to Jesus and the disciples. (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metaphor]])

# the sheep of the flock will be scattered

This can be stated in active form. AT: "they will scatter all the sheep of the flock" or "the sheep of the flock will run off in all directions" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-activepassive]])

# after I am raised up

Here to raise up is an idiom for causing someone who has died to become alive again. This can be stated in active form. AT: "after God raises me up" or "after God brings me back to life" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-activepassive]] and [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-idiom]])

# translationWords

* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/names/mountofolives]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/written]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/shepherd]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/sheep]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/flock]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/names/galilee]]