# fell on his face

He purposely lay face down on the ground to pray. (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-idiom]])

# My Father

This is an important title for God that shows the relationship between God and Jesus. (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/guidelines-sonofgodprinciples]])

# let this cup pass from me

Jesus speaks of the work that he must do, dying on the cross, as if it were a bitter liquid that God has commanded him to drink from a cup. The word "cup" is an important word in the New Testament, so you should keep it in your translation. (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metaphor]])

# this cup

Here "cup" is a metonym that stands for the cup and the contents within it. The contents in the cup are a metaphor for the suffering that Jesus will have to endure. Jesus is asking the Father if it is possible for him not to have to suffer and die in the way Jesus knows he will in Jerusalem. (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metonymy]] and [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metaphor]])

# Yet, not as I will, but as you will

This can be expressed as a full sentence. AT: "But do not do what I want; instead, do what you want" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-ellipsis]])

# he said to Peter, "What, could you not watch

Jesus is speaking to Peter, but the "you" is plural, referring to Peter, James, and John. (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-you]])

# What, could you not watch with me for one hour?

Jesus uses a question to scold Peter, James, and John. AT: "I am disappointed that you could not stay awake with me for one hour!" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-rquestion]])

# you do not enter into temptation

Here the abstract noun "temptation" can be stated as a verb. AT: "no one tempts you to sin" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-abstractnouns]])

# The spirit indeed is willing, but the flesh is weak

Here "spirit" is a metonym that stands for a person's desires. And, "flesh" refers to a human as a whole. Jesus means they may have the desire to do what God wants, but as humans they are weak and will fail. (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metonymy]] and [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-synecdoche]])

# translationWords

* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/pray]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/godthefather]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/willofgod]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/disciple]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/peter]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/watch]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/tempt]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/spirit]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/flesh]]