# Behold

The word "behold" here alerts us to pay attention to the surprising information that follows.

# who take up the sword

The implied information can be stated explicitly. AT: "who pick up a sword to kill others" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-explicit]])

# will perish by the sword

"will die by means of the sword" or "it is with the sword that someone will kill them"

# Do you think that I could not call ... angels?

Jesus uses a question to remind the person with the sword that Jesus could stop those who are arresting him. AT: "Surely you know that I could call ... angels" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-rquestion]])

# Do you think

Here "you" is singular and refers to the person with the sword. (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-you]])

# my Father

This is an important title for God that describes the relationship between God and Jesus. (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/guidelines-sonofgodprinciples]])

# more than twelve legions of angels

The word "legion" is a military term that refers to a group of about 6,000 soldiers. Jesus means God would send enough angels to easily stop those who are arresting Jesus. The exact number of angels is not important. AT: "more than 12 really large groups of angels" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/translate-numbers]])

# But how then would the scriptures be fulfilled, that this must happen?

Jesus uses a question to explain why he is letting these people arrest him. This can be stated in active form. AT: "But if I did that, I would not be able to fulfill what God said in the scriptures must happen" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-rquestion]] and [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-activepassive]])