# What is it that they are testifying against you?

The chief priest is not asking Jesus for information about what the witnesses said. He is asking Jesus to prove what the witnesses said is wrong. AT: "What is your response to what the witnesses are testifying against you?"

# Son of God

This is an important title that describes the relationship between the Christ and God. (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/guidelines-sonofgodprinciples]])

# the living God

Here "living" contrasts the God of Israel to all the false gods and idols that people worshiped. Only the God of Israel is alive and has power to act. See how you translated this in [Matthew 16:16](../16/13.md).

# You have said it yourself

This is an idiom that Jesus uses to mean "yes" without being completely clear about what he means. AT: "You are saying it" or "You are admitting it" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-idiom]])

# But I tell you, from now on you

Here "you" is plural. Jesus is speaking to the high priest and to the other persons there. (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-you]])

# from now on you will see the Son of Man

Possible meanings are 1) the phrase "from now on" is an idiom that means they will see the Son of Man in his power at some time in the future or 2) the phrase "from now on" means that from the time of Jesus' trial and onward, Jesus is showing himself to be the Messiah who is powerful and victorious.

# the Son of Man

Jesus is speaking about himself in third person. (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-123person]])

# sitting at the right hand of Power

Here "Power" is metonym that represents God. To sit at the "right hand of God" is a symbolic action of receiving great honor and authority from God. AT: "sitting in the place of honor beside the all-powerful God" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metonymy]] and [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/translate-symaction]])

# coming on the clouds of heaven

"riding to earth on the clouds of heaven"

# translationWords

* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/highpriest]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/command]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/life]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/god]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/christ]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/sonofgod]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/sonofman]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/righthand]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/power]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/heaven]]