# the kingdom of Yahweh

This is a reference to a united Israel as it existed in the time of David and Solomon. (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-explicit]])

# that is held within the hand of the descendants of David

Here the word "hand" represents authority and possession. Abijah is claiming that only the descendants of David have the rightful authority to rule Yahweh's kingdom. This can be stated in active form. AT: "that the descendants of David hold within their hand" or "which only the descendants of David have the authority to rule" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metonymy]] and [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-activepassive]])

# the golden calves that Jeroboam made

It might be best to translate so that the reader understands that Jeroboam had others make the golden calves. AT: "the golden calves that Jeroboam had his craftsmen make" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metonymy]])

# But did you not drive out ... as the people of other lands do?

Abijah asks this rhetorical question to rebuke the people and to emphasize the positive answer that it anticipates. The question can be translated as a statement. AT: "But you drive out ... as the people of other lands do." (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-rquestion]])

# Whoever comes to serve as a priest

"Anyone who comes to serve as a priest"

# a priest of what are not gods

The phrase "what are not gods" refers to the golden calves that Jeroboam had his craftsmen make. Although the priests served them as if they were gods, they were not really gods. AT: "a priest of idols that are not really gods" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-explicit]])