# General Information:

Jeremiah continues to speak the words of Yahweh.

# The objects belonging to Yahweh's house are being returned from Babylon now!

This can be translated in active form. AT: "People are bringing back all the gold items that they took from Yahweh's temple!" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-activepassive]])

# Why should this city become a ruin?

Yahweh uses a question to warn the people. AT: "You can keep this city from becoming a ruin if you do what Yahweh wants you to do." (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-rquestion]])

# If they are prophets, and if the word of Yahweh has truly come to them, let them beg

This is a hypothetical situation that Yahweh knows is not true. AT: "If they were prophets, and if the word of Yahweh had truly come to them, they would beg" or "Because they are not prophets and the word of Yahweh has not truly come to them, they will not beg" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-hypo]])

# if the word of Yahweh has truly come to them

The phrase "word of Yahweh" refers to messages from God. AT: "if Yahweh has truly given them messages" or "if Yahweh truly spoke messages to them"

# the word of Yahweh ... beg Yahweh of hosts not

Yahweh is speaking of himself in third person. AT: "my word ... be me, Yahweh of hosts, not" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-123person]])

# the house of the king of Judah

The word "house" has a range of possible meanings. In this case it refers to the royal palace where the king lived. AT: "the palace of the king of Judah"