# Now ... her

This word is used here to mark a change from the story to information about Abimelech. (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/writing-background]])

# Abimelech had not come near her

This is a polite way of saying he did not have sex with her. AT: "Abimelech had not slept with Sarah" or "Abimelech had not touched Sarah" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-euphemism]])

# even a righteous nation

Here "nation" stands for the people. Abimelech is worried that God will punish not only him, but his people also. AT: "even a people who are innocent" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metonymy]])

# Did he not himself say to me, 'She is my sister?' Even she herself said, 'He is my brother.'

This has quotations within a quotation. They can be stated as indirect quotations. AT: "Did he himself not tell me that she is his sister? Even she herself told me that he is her brother." (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-quotesinquotes]] and [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-quotations]])

# Did he not himself say to me, 'She is my sister?'

Abimelech used this rhetorical question to remind God of something God already knew. This can be translated as a statement. AT: "Abraham himself told me, 'She is my sister.'" or "Abraham said that she is his sister." (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-rquestion]])

# Did he not himself say ... Even she herself

The words "he himself" and "she herself" are used for emphasis to bring attention to Abraham and Sarah and to blame them for what happened. (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-rpronouns]])

# I have done this in the integrity of my heart and the innocence of my hands

Here "heart" stands for his thoughts or intentions. Also "hands" stands for his actions. AT: "I have done this with good intentions and actions" or "I have done this with no evil thoughts or actions" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metonymy]])

# translationWords

* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/names/abimelech]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/lord]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/righteous]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/nation]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/heart]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/innocent]]