# General Information:

Joseph tells his brothers about his dream.

# Behold

The word "behold" here alerts us to pay attention to the surprising information that follows.

# we were

The word "we" refers to Joseph and includes all of his brothers. (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-inclusive]])

# tying bundles of grain

When grain is reaped it is tied into bundles and stacked until it is time to separate the grain from the straw.

# behold

Here the word "behold" here shows that Joseph was surprised by what he saw.

# my bundle rose and stood upright ... your bundles came around and bowed down

Here the bundles of grain are standing and kneeling as if they were people. These bundle represent Joseph and his brothers. (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-personification]])

# Will you really reign over us? Will you actually rule over us?

Both of these phrases mean basically the same thing. Joseph's brothers are using questions to mock Joseph. They can be written as statements. AT: "You will never be our king, and we will never bow down to you!" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-parallelism]] and [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-rquestion]])

# reign over us

The word "us" refers to Joseph's brothers but not Joseph. (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-exclusive]])

# for his dreams and for his words

"because of his dreams and what he said"

# translationWords

* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/grain]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/bow]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/reign]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/dream]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/word]]