# They sat down to eat bread

"Bread" represents food in general. AT: "They sat down to eat food" or "Joseph's brothers sat down to eat" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-synecdoche]])

# They lifted up their eyes and looked, and, behold, a caravan

Here looking up is spoken of as if a person literally lifted up his eyes. Also, the word "behold" is used here to draw the reader's attention to what the men saw. AT: "They looked up and they suddenly saw a caravan" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metaphor]])

# bearing

carrying

# spices

seasonings

# balm

an oily substance with a sweet smell used for healing and protecting skin. "medicine"

# traveling to carry them down to Egypt

"bringing them down to Egypt." This can be made more explicit. AT: "bringing them down to Egypt to sell them" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-explicit]])

# What profit is it if we kill our brother and cover up his blood?

This can be written as a statement. AT: "We do not gain a profit by killing our brother and covering up his blood" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-rquestion]])

# cover up his blood

This is a figure of speech referring to hiding Joseph's death. AT: "hide his murder" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metaphor]])

# translationWords

* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/bread]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/names/ishmael]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/names/gilead]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/camel]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/myrrh]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/names/egypt]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/names/judah]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/blood]]