# I am already being poured out

Paul speaks of his readiness to die as if he were a cup of wine ready to be poured out as a sacrifice to God. (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metaphor]])

# The time of my departure has come

Here "departure" is a polite way of referring to death. AT: "Soon I will die and leave this world" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-euphemism]])

# I have competed in the good contest

Paul speaks of his hard work as if he had been an athlete competing for a prize. AT: "I have done my best" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metaphor]])

# I have finished the race

Paul speaks of his life of service to God as if he had been running a race on foot. AT: "I have completed what I needed to do" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metaphor]])

# I have kept the faith

Paul speaks of his trust in Christ and his obedience to God as if they were a valuable object that he kept in his possession. Possible meanings are 1) "I have been faithful in doing my ministry" or 2) "I have kept the teachings about what we believe from any error" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metaphor]])

# The crown of righteousness has been reserved for me

This can be stated in active form. AT: "God has reserved the crown of righteousness for me" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-activepassive]])

# crown of righteousness

Possible meanings are 1) the crown is the prize that God gives to people who have lived the right way or 2) the crown is a metaphor for righteousness. Just as the judge of a race gives a crown to the winner, when Paul finishes his life, God will declare that Paul is righteous. (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metaphor]])

# crown

a wreath made of laurel tree leaves that was given to winners of athletic contests

# on that day

"on the day when the Lord comes again" or "on the day when God judges people"

# but also to all those who have loved his appearing

Paul speaks about this event as if it has already happened. It can be stated as a future event. AT: "but also he will give it to those who are eagerly waiting for him to return" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-pastforfuture]])

# translationWords

* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/faith]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/crown]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/righteous]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/lord]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/judgeposition]]