# house of Onesiphorus

Here "house" stands for the people who live there. AT: "family of Onesiphorus" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metonymy]])

# Onesiphorus

This is the name of a man. See how you translated this name in [2 Timothy 1:16](../01/15.md).

# Erastus ... Trophimus ... Eubulus ... Pudens, Linus

These are all names of men. (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/translate-names]])

# Miletus

This is the name of a city to the south of Ephesus. (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/translate-names]])

# Do your best to come

"Make a way to come"

# before winter

"before the cold season"

# greets you, also Pudens, Linus, Claudia, and all the brothers

This can be translated as a new sentence. AT: "greets you. Pudens, Linus, Claudia, and all the brothers also greet you"

# Claudia

This is a female name. (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/translate-names]])

# all the brothers

Here "brothers" means all believers whether male or female. AT: "all the believers here" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-gendernotations]])

# May the Lord be with your spirit

"I pray that the Lord makes your spirit strong." Here "you" is singular and refers to Timothy. (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-you]])

# May grace be with you

"I pray that the Lord shows his grace to all of you there." Here "you" is plural and refers to all the believers there with Timothy. (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-you]])

# translationWords

* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/names/priscilla]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/names/aquila]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/names/corinth]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/lord]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/spirit]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/grace]]