# we walk in the flesh

The word "flesh" is a metonym for physical life. AT: "we live our lives in physical bodies" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metonymy]])

"Walk" is an idiom for "live". AT: "We live our lives in physical bodies" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-idiom]]).

# we do not wage war ... we fight

Paul speaks of his trying to persuade the Corinthians to believe him and not the false teachers as if he were fighting a physical war. These words should be translated literally. (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metaphor]])

# wage war according to the flesh

Possible meanings are 1) the word "flesh" is a metonym for physical life. AT: "fight against our enemies using physical weapons" or 2) the word "flesh" is a metonym for sinful human nature. AT: "wage war in sinful ways" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metonymy]])

# the weapons we fight with ... bring to nothing misleading arguments

Paul speaks of godly wisdom showing human wisdom to be false as if it were a weapon with which he was destroying an enemy stronghold. AT: "the weapons we fight with ... show people that what our enemies say is completely wrong" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metaphor]])

# are not fleshly

Possible meanings are 1) the word "fleshly" is a metonym for merely physical. AT: "are not physical" or 2) the word "fleshly" is a metonym for sinful human nature. AT: "are not sinful" or "do not enable us to do wrong" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metonymy]])

# translationWords

* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/flesh]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/divine]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/power]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/stronghold]]