# General Information:

In chapter 34, Yahweh speaks of the people of Israel as if they were a flock of sheep and the leaders of Israel were the shepherds that were supposed to care for the flock but have not. (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metaphor]])

# the word of Yahweh came

This is an idiom that is used to introduce something that God told his prophets or his people. See how you translated this in [Ezekiel 3:16](../03/16.md). AT: "Yahweh spoke this message" or "Yahweh spoke these words" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-idiom]])

# Son of man

"Son of a human being" or "Son of humanity." God calls Ezekiel this to emphasize that Ezekiel is only a human being. God is eternal and powerful, but humans are not. See how you translated this in [Ezekiel 2:1](../02/01.md). AT: "Mortal person" or "Human"

# the shepherds of Israel

The leaders of Israel are spoken as if they were shepherds. They were supposed to take care of their people like shepherds take care of their flock. AT: "the leaders of Israel who are like shepherds" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metaphor]])

# are shepherding themselves

The leaders taking care of themselves instead of the people are spoken of as if they were shepherding themselves. AT "are feeding and taking care of themselves" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metaphor]])

# Should not shepherds guard the flock?

Yahweh uses this question to scold the leaders for not taking care of the people. AT: "Shepherds should feed the flock and take care of it." (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-rquestion]])

# You eat the fatty portions ... dress in wool

This continues speaking of the leaders of Israel as if they were bad shepherds that kill the best animals in their flock for food and clothing. AT: "You are like shepherds who eat the fatty portions ... dress in wool" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metaphor]])

# You eat the fatty portions

The fatty portions come from the sheep and the goats. AT: "You eat the fatty parts of the sheep and goats" or "You eat the best parts of the sheep and goats" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-explicit]])

# dress in wool

"wear the wool from the sheep"

# the fatlings

"the youngest and fattest sheep and goats"

# do not shepherd at all

"do not feed and take care of the flock"

# translationWords

* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/wordofgod]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/sonofman]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/prophet]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/shepherd]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/israel]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/lordyahweh]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/woe]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/flock]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/slaughter]]