# General Information:

Yahweh continues giving Ezekiel his message to the leaders of Israel.

# General Information:

Yahweh continues speaking of the people of Israel as if they were a flock of sheep and the leaders of Israel as if they were shepherds who have not cared for the flock. (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metaphor]])

# hear the word of Yahweh

This is an idiom that is used to introduce a special message from God. AT: "listen to Yahweh's message" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-idiom]])

# As I live

"As surely as I am alive." Yahweh uses this expression to show that what he says next is certainly true. This is a way of making a solemn promise. See how you translated this in [Ezekiel 5:11](../05/11.md). AT: "I solemnly swear" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-idiom]])

# this is the Lord Yahweh's declaration

Yahweh speaks of himself by name to express the certainty of what he is declaring. See how you translated this in [Ezekiel 5:11](../05/11.md). AT: "this is what the Lord Yahweh declares" or "this is what I, the Lord Yahweh, declare" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-123person]])

# because my flock has become plunder and food for all the beasts in the fields

This can be stated in the active form. AT: "because all the beasts in the fields steal my flock and eat them" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-activepassive]])

# plunder

things that are stolen

# all the beasts in the fields

Here "all" is a generalization that refers to all the wild animals that eat sheep. AT: "all the wild animals in the fields" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-hyperbole]])

# because there was no shepherd

"because they did not have a shepherd"

# none of my shepherds sought my flock

"none of my shepherds tried to find my flock"

# guarded themselves

"shepherded themselves" or "fed and cared for themselves"

# did not shepherd my flock

"did not feed and care for my flock"