# General Information:

Yahweh continues giving Ezekiel his message to the leaders of Israel.

# General Information:

Yahweh continues speaking of the people of Israel as if they were a flock of sheep and the leaders of Israel as if they were shepherds who have not cared for the flock. (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metaphor]])

# hear the word of Yahweh

"listen to Yahweh's message." This is an idiom that is used to introduce a special message from God. (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-idiom]])

# The Lord Yahweh says this

This can be stated in the first person. AT: "I, the Lord Yahweh, say this" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-123person]])

# Behold!

The word "Behold" here adds emphasis to what follows. AT: "Indeed!"

# I am against the shepherds

"I am opposed to the shepherds"

# I will require my flock from their hand

The phrase "require ... from their hand" is an idiom that means to hold or consider someone responsible for something. AT: "I will hold them responsible for all the bad things that happen to my flock" or "I will punish them for all the bad things they let happen to my flock" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-idiom]])

# I will dismiss them from shepherding the flock

"I will not let them shepherd the flock any longer" or "I will not let them be the shepherds of the flock any longer"

# shepherd themselves

"feed and take care of themselves"

# from their mouths

Here "mouths" represent eating. AT: "so they cannot eat them" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metonymy]])

# my flock will no longer be food for them

"the shepherds will no longer eat the sheep and the goats of my flock"

# translationWords

* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/hand]]