# General Information:

Yahweh continues giving Ezekiel his message to the leaders of Israel.

# General Information:

Yahweh continues speaking of the people of Israel as if they were a flock of sheep. Here he speaks of himself as if he were their shepherd and will take care of them. (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metaphor]])

# For the Lord Yahweh says this

This can be stated in first person. AT: "For this is what I, the Lord Yahweh, say" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-123person]])

# Behold!

The word "Behold" here alerts the shepherds to pay attention to the surprising information that follows.

# will seek out

"will look for"

# within the midst of his scattered flock

"with his scattered flock"

# they were scattered

It is is implied that the animals in the flock scattered because they did not have a shepherd to care for them or protect them. This can be stated in active form. AT: "they scattered because they did not have a shepherd to care for them" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-explicit]] and [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-activepassive]])

# on the day of clouds and darkness

"on the cloudy and dark day." Disasters are spoken of as if they were a day of darkness. AT: "when terrible disasters happened to them" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metaphor]])

# bring them

"bring my sheep and my goats" or "bring my flock"

# from among the peoples

"from the places where they lived with other peoples"

# I will put them in pastures ... every settlement in the land

Yahweh bringing his people back from exile to their land so that he can care for them and keep them safe is spoken of as if he were their shepherd who puts his flock in a place where there is plenty of land, food, and water. (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metaphor]])

# pastures

land that has grass and small plants that sheep and goats can eat

# settlement

This is a place where people live. Usually they live in houses in a settlement.

# translationWords

* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/flock]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/shepherd]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/darkness]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/peoplegroup]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/israel]]