# General Information:

Here "you" is plural and refers to the people who were listening to Paul. (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-you]])

# Now

This word marks a shift from Paul discussing his past to talking about himself in the present.

# I stand here to be judged

This can be stated in active form. AT: "I am here, where they are putting me on trial" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-activepassive]])

# of my certain hope in the promise made by God to our fathers

This speaks about a promise as if it were something a person could look for and see. AT: "I am waiting expectantly for God to do what he promised our forefathers he would do" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metaphor]])

# For this is the promise that our twelve tribes sought to receive

The phrase "our twelve tribes" stands for the people in those tribes. AT: "This is also what our fellow Jews in the twelve tribes were waiting for" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metonymy]])

# the promise ... sought to receive

This speaks about a promise as if it were an object that can be received. (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metaphor]])

# worshiped God night and day

The extremes "night" and "day" mean they "worshiped God continually." (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-merism]])

# that the Jews

This does not mean all the Jews. AT: "that the leaders of the Jews" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-synecdoche]])

# Why should any of you think it is unbelievable that God raises the dead?

Paul uses a question to challenge the Jews present. They believe God can raise the dead but do not think God brought Jesus back to life. This can be expressed as a statement. "Raises the dead" here is an idiom for "gives life to dead people." AT: "You do not think it is beyond reason that God can bring a dead person back to life, do you?" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-rquestion]] and [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-idiom]]).

# translationWords

* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/judge]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/promise]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/god]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/father]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/12tribesofisrael]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/hope]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/worship]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/king]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/jew]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/accuse]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/death]]