# Connecting Statement:

Paul continues giving his defense to King Agrippa. In these verses he continues quoting his conversation with the Lord.

# to open their eyes

Helping people to understand the truth is spoken of as if a person were literally helping someone to open his eyes. (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metaphor]])

# to turn them from darkness to light

Helping someone to stop doing what is evil and to start trusting and obeying God is spoken of as if the person is literally leading someone out of a dark place into a place of light. (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metaphor]])

# to turn them ... from the power of Satan to God

Helping someone to stop obeying Satan and to start obeying God is spoken of as if a person were literally turning a person and taking them from the place where Satan rules and leading him to the place where God rules. (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metaphor]])

# they may receive from God the forgiveness of sins

The abstract noun "forgiveness" can be stated as the verb "forgive." AT: "God may forgive their sins" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-abstractnouns]])

# the inheritance that I give

The abstract noun "inheritance" may be stated as the verb "inherit." AT: "they may inherit that which I give" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-abstractnouns]])

# the inheritance

The blessings that Jesus gives to those who believe in him are spoken of as if they were an inheritance that children receive from their father. (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metaphor]])

# sanctified by faith in me

Jesus choosing some people to belong to him is spoken of as if he literally set them apart from other people. (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metaphor]])

# by faith in me

"because they believe in me." Here Paul finishes quoting the Lord.

# translationWords

* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/lordgod]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/jesus]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/persecute]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/appoint]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/servant]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/witness]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/gentile]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/darkness]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/light]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/power]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/satan]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/god]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/forgive]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/sin]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/inherit]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/sanctify]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/faith]]