# General Information:

Yahweh's parable about the cedar continues.

# Cedars in the garden of God could not equal it

Since these were God's words to Pharaoh, it can also be translated with the first person. AT: "The cedar trees in my garden were not as great as that tree" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-123person]])

# the garden of God

This is another way of referring to "the garden of Eden."

# None among the cypress trees matched its branches

Yahweh was comparing how many branches the trees had. AT: "None of the cypress trees had as many branches as the cedar" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-explicit]])

# cypress trees

Cypress trees have very many branches. They can grow very tall. See how you translated "cypress" in [Ezekiel 27:5](../27/04.md).

# the plane tree could not equal its boughs

It was implied Yahweh was comparing the long branches of the cedar tree with the long branches of the plane tree. AT: "the plane tree did not have branches like the cedar tree" or "no plane tree had branches as long as the branches of the cedar tree" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-explicit]])

# plane tree

A plane tree was a large, leafy tree with strong branches. It is similar to a sycamore tree. (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/translate-unknown]])

# was like it in its beauty

"was as beautiful as the cedar tree"

# I made it beautiful with its many branches

"I made the cedar beautiful by giving it many long branches"

# envied it

"were jealous of the cedar tree"

# translationWords

* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/names/eden]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/envy]]