# General Information:

Yahweh's parable about the cedar continues.

# they also went down with it to Sheol

Here "went down ... to Sheol" is an idiom that means to die. AT: "those trees of Lebanon also died and went down to Sheol with the cedar" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-idiom]])

# who had been killed by the sword

Here "sword" represents enemies who fought them in battle. This can be stated in active form. AT: "whom enemies had killed with swords" or "who had died in battle" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-activepassive]] and [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metonymy]])

# These were its strong arm

"These trees of Lebanon were its strong arm." The phrase "strong arm" represents "power." AT: "These trees of Lebanon were the power of the cedar" or "These trees strengthened the cedar" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metonymy]])

# Which of the trees in Eden was your equal in glory and greatness?

"Which of these trees in Eden had as much glory as you and was as great as you?" God asks Pharaoh this question to show him that the parable applies to him and his country. It can start with "So Pharaoh" or "So Egypt." AT: "None of the trees in Eden was your equal in glory and greatness!" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-rquestion]])

# For you will be brought down

This can be stated in active form. AT: "For I will bring you down" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-activepassive]])

# with the trees of Eden

"like the other trees of Eden"

# to the lowest parts of the earth

"to a place deep in the ground"

# among the uncircumcised

"where you will be with people who are not circumcised"

# this is the Lord Yahweh's declaration

Yahweh speaks of himself by name to express the certainty of what he is declaring. See how you translated this in [Ezekiel 5:11](../05/11.md). AT: "this is what the Lord Yahweh has declared" or "this is what I, the Lord Yahweh, have declared" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-123person]])

# translationWords

* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/hades]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/sword]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/eden]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/glory]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/earth]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/uncircumcised]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/lordyahweh]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/declare]]