# set the temple in order

This means that he restored the worship in the temple as God had intended it to be. AT: "restored proper worship to the temple" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-explicit]])

# Necho, king of Egypt, went up

This is the name of the king of Egypt. Here the king represents himself accompanied by his army. AT: "Necho, king of Egypt, went up with his army" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/translate-names]] and [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-synecdoche]])

# against Carchemish

This is the name of a city. Here the city represents the people who live there. AT: "against the people of Carchemish" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/translate-names]] and [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metonymy]])

# Josiah went to fight against him

Here both Josiah and Necho represent themselves accompained by their armies. AT: "Josiah and his army went to fight against Necho and his army" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-synecdoche]])

# What have I to do with you, king of Judah?

Necho uses this rhetorical question to tell Josiah that he is not in conflict with him and that Josiah should not attack him. This question can be written as a statement. AT: "You have no reason to attack me, king of Judah." (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-rquestion]])

# I am not coming against you

Here the king Josiah represents his kingdom. AT: "I am not fighting your kingdom" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-synecdoche]])

# against the house with which

Here the word "house" refers to the house of Babylon, where "house" is a metonym for the kingdom. The kingdom is a synechdoche representing the Babylonian army. AT: "against the house of Babylon, with whom" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metonymy]] and [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-synecdoche]])