# But you, Bethlehem Ephrathah

Yahweh speaks to the people of Judah, and especially to the people of Bethlehem, as if he were speaking to the town of Bethlehem itself. (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-apostrophe]])

# Ephrathah

This is either the name of the area in which Bethlehem was situated or it is just another name for Bethlehem or it distinguishes this Bethlehem from another. Bethlehem is about six miles south of Jerusalem. It was the hometown of King David. Translators may add this footnote: "The name 'Ephrathah' means 'to be fruitful.'" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/translate-names]])

# even though you are small among the clans of Judah, out of you one will come

"even though other clans in Judah have more people in them, it is one of your people who will come"

# will come to me

Here "me" refers to Yahweh.

# whose beginning is from ancient times, from everlasting

This refers to the ruler descending from the ancient family of King David. The phrases "from ancient times" and "from everlasting" mean basically the same thing and emphasize how old this family line is. (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-doublet]])

# Therefore

"Because this ruler will come later"

# will give them up

will abandon the people of Israel

# until the time when she who is in labor bears a child

This refers to the time when the ruler is born, a limited time.

# the rest of his brothers

"the rest of the ruler's fellow Israelites," who are in exile

# translationWords

* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/bethlehem]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/clan]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/judah]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/ruler]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/israel]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/eternity]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/god]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/laborpains]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/children]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/brother]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/peopleofgod]]