# They will shepherd the land of Assyria with the sword, and the land of Nimrod in its entrances

The sword is a metonym for killing in war. Here the Israelites ruling over the Assyrians is spoken of ironically as if they were killing sheep instead of herding them. The land of Assyria is a metonym for the people who live there. The entrances to cities were where official business took place. AT: "They will make war against the people of Assyria, and they will rule the cities of the land of Nimrod" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metaphor]] and [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-irony]] and [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metonymy]])

# and the land of Nimrod

The words "they will shepherd" are understood from the beginning of the sentence. They can be repeated. AT: "and they will shepherd the land of Nimrod" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-ellipsis]])

# land of Nimrod

This is another name for the land of Assyria. Nimrod was a hunter and early ruler. Translators may add this footnote: "The name 'Nimrod' means 'rebellion.'" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/translate-names]])

# He will rescue

The ruler will rescue

# like dew from Yahweh, like showers on the grass

Dew and rain showers refresh the land and cause things to grow. The Israelites will cause the people among whom they live to live will. (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-simile]])

# grass, that do not wait for a man, and they do not wait for the children

"grass. It is not for a man that they wait, nor is it for the children." It is Yahweh alone who causes dew and rain showers.

# translationWords

* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/names/assyria]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/sword]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/hand]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/remnant]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/names/jacob]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/peoplegroup]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/yahweh]]