# Awake, awake

This word is repeated for emphasis and shows urgency. Isaiah trying to arouse the people is spoken of as if he were trying to wake them up from sleep. (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metaphor]])

# put on your strength

Being strong again is spoken of as if strength were clothing that a person puts on. Alternate translation: "be strong" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metaphor]])

# Zion ... Jerusalem

Both of these refer to the people who live in Jerusalem. Isaiah is speaking to the people as if they were there listening to him. Alternate translation: "people of Zion ... people of Jerusalem" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metonymy]] and [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-apostrophe]])

# the uncircumcised or the unclean

These nominal adjectives can be stated as adjectives. Alternate translation: "Those who are uncircumcised or those who are unclean" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-nominaladj]])

# the unclean

This refers to unclean people. A person who God considers spiritually unacceptable or defiled is spoken of as if the person were physically unclean. Alternate translation: "those who are not acceptable to God" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metaphor]])

# enter you

Here "you" refers to Jerusalem which represents the people who live there. It is understood that the uncircumcised and unclean people would enter the city to attack the people. Alternate translation: "enter your city to attack you" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metonymy]] and [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-ellipsis]])

