# General Information:

Isaiah continues speaking to the people of Israel.

# Shake yourself off from the dust; arise and sit, Jerusalem

Here "Jerusalem" represents the people who live there. AT: "People of Jerusalem, sit up and shake the dirt off of yourself" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metonymy]])

# take off the chain from your neck, captive

It is implied that the people of Jerusalem were wearing chains because they were slaves while exiled in Babylon. The full meaning of this statement can be made clear. (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metonymy]] and [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-explicit]])

# daughter of Zion

This is an idiom. The "daughter" of a city means the people of the city. See how you translated this in [Isaiah 1:8](../01/07.md). AT: "people of Zion" or "people who live in Zion" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-idiom]])

# You were sold for nothing, and you will be redeemed without money

This speaks about Yahweh as if he were the owner of the people of Israel. Since he is the rightful owner he can give them away or take them back whenever he wants. This can be stated in active form. AT: "I sold you for nothing, and I will redeem you without money" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metaphor]] and [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-activepassive]])

# translationWords

* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/jerusalem]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/captive]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/zion]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/yahweh]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/redeem]]