# Now what do I have here ... seeing that my people are taken away for nothing?

Yahweh uses a question to make the people pay attention to what he is about to say. This rhetorical question can be translated as a statement. AT: "Now look at what is happening ... my people are again taken away for nothing." (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-rquestion]])

# this is Yahweh's declaration

Yahweh speaks of himself by name to express the certainty of what he is declaring. Translate as in [Isaiah 30:1](../30/01.md). AT: "this is what Yahweh has declared" or "this is what I, Yahweh, have declared" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-123person]])

# seeing that my people are taken away for nothing

This can be stated in active form. AT: "I see the enemy taking my people away for nothing" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-activepassive]])

# for nothing

Possible meanings are 1) "for nothing" means the Babylonians took the people unjustly and without cause or 2) this continues the metaphor from [Isaiah 52:3](./03.md) where Yahweh is spoken of as if he owned the people of Israel and could give them away for nothing. (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metaphor]])

# Those who rule over them mock

This refers to the Babylonians who have conquered the people. However, some versions have, "Those who rule over them wail." For these versions, this passage refers to the leaders of the Israelites in captivity.

# my name is blasphemed continually all day long

Here "name" represents Yahweh's reputation. This can be stated in active form. AT: "those who watch the enemy take away my people are continually saying evil things about me" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metonymy]] and [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-activepassive]])

