# Many of the people of Israel will be turned to the Lord their God

Here "be turned" is a metaphor for a person repenting and worshiping the Lord. This can be stated in active form. AT: "He will cause many of the people of Israel to repent and worship the Lord their God" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metaphor]] and [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-activepassive]])

# will go before the face of the Lord

Before the Lord comes, he will go and announce to the people that the Lord will come to them.

# the face of the Lord

Here "the face of" someone can be an idiom that refers to the that person's presence. It is sometimes omitted in translation. AT: "the Lord" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-idiom]])

# in the spirit and power of Elijah

"with the same spirit and power that Elijah had." The word "spirit" either refers to God's Holy Spirit or to Elijah's attitude or way of thinking. Make sure that the word "spirit" does not mean ghost or evil spirit.

# turn the hearts of the fathers to the children

"persuade fathers to care about their children again" or "cause fathers to restore their relationships with their children"

# turn the hearts

The heart is spoken of as if it is something that can be turned to go in a different direction. This refers to changing someone's attitude toward something. (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metaphor]])

# and the disobedient to the wisdom of the righteous

"to turn the disobedient to the wisdom of the righteous" or "to convince the disobedient that they should be wise and do what righteous people do"

# the disobedient

Here this refers to people who do not obey the Lord.

# make ready for the Lord a people prepared for him

What the people will be prepared to do can be stated clearly. AT: "make ready for the Lord a people who are prepared to believe his message" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-explicit]])

# translationWords

* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/israel]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/turn]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/lord]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/spirit]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/power]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/names/elijah]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/heart]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/disobey]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/wise]]