# General Information:

The angel Gabriel announces to Mary that she is going to be the mother of the one who is the Son of God.

# In the sixth month

"in the sixth month of Elizabeth's pregnancy." It may be necessary to state this clearly if it would be confused with the sixth month of the year. (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-explicit]])

# the angel Gabriel was sent from God

This can be stated in active form. AT: "God told the angel Gabriel to go" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-activepassive]])

# engaged

"pledged" or "promised to be married." Mary's parents had made a commitment for her to marry Joseph.

# He belonged to the house of David

"He belonged to the same tribe as David" or "He was a descendant of King David"

# the virgin's name was Mary

This introduces Mary as a new character in the story. (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/writing-participants]])

# He came to her

"The angel came to Mary"

# Greetings

This was a common greeting. It means: "Rejoice" or "Be glad."

# you who are highly favored!

"you who have received great grace!" or "you who have received special kindness!"

# The Lord is with you

"with you" here is an idiom that implies support and acceptance. AT: "The Lord is pleased with you" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-idiom]])

# she was very confused ... wondered what kind of greeting this could be

Mary understood the meaning of the individual words, but she did not understand why the angel said this amazing greeting to her.

# translationWords

* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/angel]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/names/gabriel]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/god]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/names/galilee]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/names/nazareth]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/virgin]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/names/josephnt]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/names/david]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/names/mary]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/favor]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/word]]