# Do not be afraid, Mary

The angel does not want Mary to be afraid of his appearance, because God sent him with a positive message.

# you have found favor with God

The idiom "to find favor" means to be positively received by someone. The sentence can be altered to show God as the actor. AT: "God has decided to give you his grace" or "God is showing you his kindness" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-idiom]])

# you will conceive in your womb and bear a son ... Jesus ... the Son of the Most High

Mary will bear "a son" who will be called "the Son of the Most High." Jesus is therefore a human son born of a human mother, and he is also the Son of God. These terms should be translated very carefully.

# will be called

Possible meanings are 1) "people will call him" or 2) "God will call him" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-activepassive]])

# Son of the Most High

This is an important title for Jesus, the Son of God. (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/guidelines-sonofgodprinciples]])

# give him the throne of his ancestor David

The throne represents the king's authority to rule. AT: "give him authority to rule as king as his ancestor David did" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metonymy]])

# there will be no end to his kingdom

The negative phrase "no end" emphasizes that it continues forever. It could also be stated with a positive phrase. AT: "his kingdom will never end" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-litotes]])

# translationWords

* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/jesus]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/sonofgod]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/mosthigh]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/throne]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/father]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/names/david]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/reign]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/names/jacob]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/eternity]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/kingdom]]