# raised her voice ... said loudly

These two phrases mean the same thing, and are used to emphasize how excited Elizabeth was. They could be combined into one phrase. AT: "exclaimed loudly" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-doublet]])

# raised her voice

This idiom means "increased the volume of her voice" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-idiom]])

# Blessed are you among women

The idiom "among women" means "more than any other woman" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-idiom]])

# the fruit of your womb

Mary's baby is spoken of as if it is the fruit that a plant produces. AT: "the baby in your womb" or "the baby you will bear" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metaphor]])

# Why has it happened to me that the mother of my Lord should come to me?

Elizabeth is not asking for information. She was showing how surprised and happy she was that the mother of the Lord had come to her. AT: "How wonderful it is that the mother of my Lord has come to me!" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-rquestion]])

# the mother of my Lord

It can be made clear that Elizabeth was calling Mary "the mother of my Lord" by adding the word "you." AT: "you, the mother of my Lord" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-123person]])

# For see

This phrase alerts Mary to pay attention to Elizabeth's surprising statement that follows.

# when the sound of your greeting came to my ears

Hearing a sound is spoken of as if the sound came to the ears. AT: "when I heard the sound of your greeting" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metonymy]])

# jumped for joy

"moved suddenly with joy" or "turned forcefully because he was so happy"

# Blessed is she who believed ... that were told her from the Lord

Elizabeth is talking about Mary to Mary. AT: "Blessed are you who believed ... that were told you from the Lord"(See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-123person]] and [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-activepassive]])

# Blessed is she who believed

The passive verb can be translated in active form. AT: "God will bless her because she believed" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-activepassive]])

# there would be a fulfillment of the things

"the things would actually happen" or "the things would come true"

# the things that were told her from the Lord

The word "from" is used here instead of "by" because it was the angel Gabriel whom Mary actually heard speak (see [Luke 1:26] (../01/26.md)), but the message ("the things") came ultimately from the Lord. This can be stated in active form. AT: "the message that she heard from the Lord" or "the Lord's message that the angel told her" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-activepassive]] and [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-explicit]])

# translationWords

* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/voice]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/bless]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/fruit]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/joy]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/believe]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/fulfill]]