# He has raised up a horn of salvation for us

The horn of an animal is a symbol of its power to defend itself. To raise up here is to bring into existence or to enable to act. The Messiah is spoken of as if he were a horn with the power to save Israel. AT: "He has brought to us someone with the power to save us" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metaphor]])

# in the house of his servant David

David's "house" here represents his family, specifically, his descendants. AT: "in the family of his servant David" or "who is a descendant of his servant David" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metonymy]])

# as he spoke

"just as God said"

# he spoke by the mouth of his holy prophets from long ago

God speaking by the prophets' mouths represents God causing his prophets to say what he wanted them to say. AT: "he caused his holy prophets who lived long ago to say" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metonymy]])

# from long ago), salvation from our enemies

The abstract noun "salvation" can be expressed with the verbs "save" or "rescue." AT: "from long ago). He will save us from our enemies" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-abstractnouns]])

# our enemies ... all who hate us

These two phrases mean basically the same thing and are repeated to emphasize how strongly their enemies are against them. (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-parallelism]])

# hand

"power" or "control." The word "hand" represents the power that wicked persons use against God's people. (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metonymy]])

# translationWords

* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/save]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/descendant]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/names/houseofdavid]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/servant]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/names/david]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/holy]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/prophet]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/hand]]