# to show mercy to

"to be merciful to" or "to act according to his mercy toward"

# remember

Here the word "remember" means to keep a commitment or fulfill something.

# his holy covenant, the oath that he spoke

These two phrases refer to the same thing. They are repeated to show the seriousness of God's promise to Abraham. (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-parallelism]])

# to grant to us

"to make it possible for us"

# that we, having been delivered out of the hand of our enemies, would serve him without fear

It may be helpful to change the order of these phrases. AT: "that we would serve him without fear after we have rescued from the hand of our enemies"

# delivered

"Delivered" is a metaphor, meaning "to be brought." AT: "brought out from." (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metaphor]]).

# out of the hand of our enemies

"hand" refers to the control or power a person. This could be stated clearly. AT: "from the control of our enemies" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metonymy]])

# without fear

This refers back to the fear of their enemies. AT: "without being afraid of our enemies" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-ellipsis]])

# in holiness and righteousness

This can be restated to remove the abstract nouns "holiness" and "righteousness." Possible meanings are 1) we would serve God in holy and righteous ways. AT: "doing what is holy and righteous" or 2) we would be holy and righteous. AT: "being holy and righteous" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-abstractnouns]])

# before him

This is an idiom which means "in his presence" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-idiom]])

# translationWords

* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/mercy]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/father]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/holy]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/covenant]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/oath]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/names/abraham]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/deliverer]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/serve]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/righteous]]