# Yes, and you

Zechariah uses this phrase to begin his direct address to his son. You may have a similar way to direct speech in your language.

# you, child, will be called a prophet

People will realize that he is a prophet. This can be stated in active form. AT: "people will know that you are a prophet" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-activepassive]])

# of the Most High

These words are a euphemism for God. AT: "who serves the Most High" or "who speaks for God Most High" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-euphemism]])

# will go before the face of the Lord

Before the Lord comes, he will go and announce to the people that the Lord will come to them. See how you translated this in [Luke 1:17](./16.md).

# the face of the Lord

"the face of" someone can be an idiom that refers to the that person's presence. It is sometimes omitted in translation. AT: "the Lord" See how you translated this in [Luke 1:17](./16.md). (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-idiom]])

# to prepare his paths

This is a metaphor that means that John will prepare the people to listen to and believe the Lord's message. (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metaphor]])

# to give knowledge of salvation ... by the forgiveness of their sins

The phrase "give knowledge" is a metaphor for teaching. The abstract nouns "salvation" and "forgiveness" can be expressed with the verbs "save" and "forgive." AT: "to teach his people salvation through the forgiveness of their sins" or "to teach his people how God saves people by forgiving their sins" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metonymy]] and [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-abstractnouns]])

# translationWords

* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/prophet]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/mosthigh]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/lord]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/know]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/save]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/forgive]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/sin]]