# because of the tender mercy of our God

It might be helpful to state that God's mercy helps people. AT: "because God is compassionate and merciful to us" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-explicit]])

# the sunrise from on high ... to shine on

Light is often a metaphor for truth. Here, the spiritual truth the Savior will provide is spoken of as if it is a sunrise that lights up the earth. (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metaphor]])

# shine on

"give knowledge to" or "give spiritual light to"

# those who sit in darkness

Darkness is here a metaphor for the absence of spiritual truth. Here, people who lack spiritual truth are spoken of as if they are sitting in darkness. AT: "people who do not know the truth" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metaphor]])

# darkness ... shadow of death

These two phrases work together to emphasize the deep spiritual darkness of people before God shows them mercy. (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-doublet]])

# in the shadow of death

The shadow often represents something that is about to happen. Here, it refers to approaching death. AT: "who are about to die" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-idiom]])

# guide our feet into the path of peace

Here "guide" is a metaphor for teaching, and "path of peace" is a metaphor for living at peace with God. The phrase "our feet" is a synecdoche that represents the whole person. AT: "teach us how to live at peace with God" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metaphor]] and [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-synecdoche]])

# translationWords

* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/mercy]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/god]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/darkness]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/death]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/peace]]