# General Information:

Peter begins to speak specifically to men who are husbands.

# In the same way

This refers back to how Sarah and other godly women obeyed their husbands in [1 Peter 3:5](../03/05.md) and [1 Peter 3:6](../03/06.md).

# wives according to understanding, as with a weaker container, a woman

Peter speaks of women as if they were containers, as men are sometimes also spoken of. The abstract noun "understanding" can also be translated as a verb. Alternate translation: "wives, understanding that the woman is the weaker partner" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metaphor]] and [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-abstractnouns]])

# give them honor as fellow heirs of the grace of life

You can translate this using verbal phrases. Alternate translation: "honor them because they will also receive by grace the eternal life that God gives" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-abstractnouns]])

# heirs of the grace of life

Eternal life is often spoken of as if it were something that people inherit. (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metaphor]])

# Do this

Here "this" refers to the ways husbands should treat their wives. Alternate translation: "Live with your wives in this way" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-explicit]])

# so that your prayers will not be hindered

To "hinder" is to prevent something from happening. This can be stated in active form. Alternate translation: "so that nothing will hinder your prayers" or "so that nothing will keep you from praying as you should" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-activepassive]])

