# General Information:

In these verses Peter quotes from the Psalms. (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-explicit]])

# to love life and see good days

These two phrases mean basically the same thing and emphasize the desire to have a good life. (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-parallelism]])

# see good days

Here experiencing good things is spoken of as seeing good things. The word "days" refers to one's lifetime. AT: "experience good things during life" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metaphor]] and [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metonymy]])

# stop his tongue from evil and his lips from speaking deceit

The words "tongue" and "lips" refer to the person who is speaking. These two phrases mean basically the same thing and emphasize the command not to lie. AT: "stop saying evil and deceitful things" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-parallelism]] and [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-synecdoche]])

# The eyes of the Lord see the righteous

The word "eyes" refers to the Lord's ability to know things. The Lord's approval of the righteous is spoken of as his seeing them. AT: "The Lord sees the righteous" or "The Lord approves of the righteous" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-synecdoche]] and [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metaphor]])

# his ears hear their requests

The word "ears" refers to the Lord's awareness of what people say. That the Lord hears their requests implies that he also responds to them. AT: "he hears their requests" or "he grants their requests" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-synecdoche]] and [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-explicit]])

# the face of the Lord is against

The word "face" refers to the Lord's will to oppose his enemies. Opposing someone is spoken of as setting one's face against that person. AT: "the Lord opposes" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-synecdoche]] and [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metaphor]])