# Connecting Statement:

Peter explains how Christ suffered and what Christ accomplished by suffering.

# suffered for us

The word "us" includes the people Peter was writing to. (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-inclusive]])

# so that he would bring us to God

Peter probably means here that Christ died in order to create a close relationship between us and God. (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metaphor]])

# He was put to death in the flesh

Here "flesh" refers to Christ's body; Christ was physically put to death. This can be stated in active form. AT: "People put Christ to death physically" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metaphor]] and [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-activepassive]])

# he was made alive by the Spirit

This can be stated in active form. AT: "the Spirit made him alive" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-activepassive]])

# by the Spirit

Possible meanings are 1) by the Holy Spirit's power or 2) in a spiritual existence.

# By the Spirit, he went

Possible meanings are 1) "By the Holy Spirit's power, he went" or 2) "In his spiritual existence, he went."

# the spirits who are now in prison

Possible meanings of the word "spirits" are 1) "evil spirits" or 2) "spirits of the dead people."

# when the patience of God was waiting

The word "patience" is a metonym for God himself. Peter writes of God's patience as if it is a person. AT: "when God was waiting patiently" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-personification]] and [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metonymy]])

# in the days of Noah, in the days of the building of an ark

This can be stated in active form. AT: "during the time of Noah, when he was building an ark" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-activepassive]])

# eight souls

Here the word "souls" refers to people. AT: "eight people" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-synecdoche]])

# translationWords

* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/sin]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/righteous]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/righteous]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/death]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/flesh]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/holyspirit]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/preach]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/prison]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/disobey]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/patient]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/names/noah]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/ark]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/save]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/soul]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/water]]