# General Information:

Peter speaks specifically to men who are elders.


# the glory that will be revealed

This is a reference to Christ's second coming. This can be stated in active form. AT: "the glory of Christ that God will reveal" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-activepassive]] and [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metonymy]])

# Be shepherds of God's flock

Peter speaks of the believers as a flock of sheep and the elders as the shepherds who care for them. (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metaphor]])

# serving as overseers

Possible meanings are 1) an "overseer" is an official steward who takes care of God's people, or 2) the writer is explaining what shepherds do ("Be shepherds of God's flock"), "caring for them."

# Do not act as a master over the people ... Instead, be an example

Elders are to lead by example and not act toward the people as a harsh master would toward his servants. (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metaphor]])

# who are in your care

You can translate this using a verbal phrase. AT: "whom God has placed in your care" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-abstractnouns]])

# Then when the Chief Shepherd is revealed

Peter speaks of Jesus as if he were a shepherd who had authority over all other shepherds. This can be stated in active form. AT: "When Jesus, the Chief Shepherd, appears" or "When God reveals Jesus, the Chief Shepherd" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metaphor]] and [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-activepassive]])

# an unfading crown of glory

Here the word "crown" represents the reward that someone receives as a symbol of victory. The word "unfading" means that it is eternal. AT: "a glorious prize that will last forever" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metaphor]])

# of glory

glorious

# translationWords

* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/exhort]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/elder]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/witness]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/suffer]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/christ]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/glory]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/reveal]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/flock]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/god]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/lord]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/chief]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/shepherd]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/crown]]