# General Information:

Parallelism is common in Hebrew poetry. (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/writing-poetry]] and [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-parallelism]])

# A maschil

This may refer to a style of music. See how you translated this in [Psalms 32:1](../032/001.md).

# Ethan

This is the name of the writer. (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/translate-names]])

# the Ezrahite

This is the name of a people group. It may refer to a son or descendant of Zerah. (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/translate-names]])

# acts of covenant faithfulness

The abstract noun "faithfulness" can be stated as an adjective. AT: "faithful acts" or "loving acts" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-abstractnouns]])

# Covenant faithfulness has been established forever

God always doing what he promised to do is spoken of as if his faithfulness were a building that God has built and made firm. This can be stated in active form. AT: "You will always be faithful because of your covenant with us" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metaphor]] and [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-activepassive]])

# your truthfulness you have established in the heavens

God always doing what he promised to do is spoken of as if his faithfulness were a building that God has built and made firm. (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metaphor]])

# in the heavens

Possible meanings are 1) this refers to God's dwelling place. This would mean God rules from heaven and he always does what he promises or 2) this refers to the sky. This would mean that God's promises are as constant and permanent as the sky .

# translationWords

* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/yahweh]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/covenantfaith]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/forever]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/proclaim]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/true]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/generation]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/heaven]]