# The heavens praise

Here "heavens" represents those who are in heaven. (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metonymy]])

# praise your wonders, Yahweh

"praise you, Yahweh, because of the wonderful things you do"

# your truthfulness is praised in the assembly of the holy ones

The abstract noun "truthfulness" can be stated as "you always do what you promise to do." This can also be stated in active form. AT: "The assembly of the holy ones praises you because you always do what you promise to do" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-activepassive]] and [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-activepassive]])

# the assembly of the holy ones

This refers to the angels in heaven.

# For who in the skies can be compared to Yahweh? Who among the sons of the gods is like Yahweh?

Both questions mean the same thing. The writer is using question to emphasize that there in no one in heaven like Yahweh. (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-parallelism]] and [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-rquestion]])

# sons of the gods

Here "sons of" means having the characteristics of. This is a way of referring to other spiritual beings that live in heaven. AT: "angels" or "divine beings" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-idiom]])

# translationWords

* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/heaven]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/praise]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/yahweh]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/miracle]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/assembly]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/holyone]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/sonsofgod]]