# Connecting Statement:

Yahweh continues speaking about David.

# My truth and my covenant faithfulness will be with him

God always being loyal and doing what he promises for David is spoken of as if truth and faithfulness were objects that would be with David. The abstract nouns "truth" and "faithfulness" can be translated as adjectives. AT: "I will always be truthful with him and I will always act faithfully towards him" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metaphor]] and [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-abstractnouns]])

# by my name he will be victorious

Here "name" represents God' power. AT: "I, God, will cause him to be victorious" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metonymy]])

# I will place his hand over the sea and his right hand over the rivers

Here "hand" and "right hand" represent power and authority. Here "the sea" seems to refer to the Mediterranean Sea west of Israel, and "rivers" refers to the Euphrates river in the east. This means David will have authority over everything from the sea to the river. AT: "I will give him authority over everything from the Mediterranean sea to the Euphrates river" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metonymy]] and [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-merism]])

# He will call out to me, 'You are my Father, my God, and the rock of my salvation.'

This has a quotation within a quotation. It can be stated as an indirect quotation. AT: "He will say that I am his Father, his God, and the rock of his salvation." (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-quotesinquotes]] and [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-quotations]])

# the rock of my salvation

Yahweh protecting and saving David is spoken of as if Yahweh were a high rock that David could stand on top of for protection from enemies. (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metaphor]])

# translationWords

* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/true]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/covenantfaith]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/name]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/hand]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/call]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/father]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/god]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/salvation]]