# I have sworn by my holiness

Yahweh uses his holiness as the basis for his oath. This is a way of guaranteeing that he definitely do what he promises to do.

# his throne as long as the sun before me

The words "will continue" are understood. AT: "his throne will continue as long as the sun before me" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-ellipsis]])

# his throne

Here "throne" represents the power to rule as king. God is promising that one of David's descendants will always be king. (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metonymy]])

# as long as the sun before me

God compares David's rule as king to the sun to emphasize that someone from David's descendants will always rule as king. (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-simile]])

# It will be established forever

Here "It" stands for David's throne or power to rule as king. This can be stated in active form. AT: "I will cause it to last forever" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-activepassive]])

# forever like the moon

God compares David's rule as king to the moon to emphasize that someone from David's descendants will always rule as king. (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-simile]])

# the moon, the faithful witness in the sky

The moon is spoken of as if it were a person who witnesses God making this promise to David. AT: "the moon, which is like a faithful witness in the sky" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-personification]])

# Selah

This may be a musical term that tells people how to sing or play their instruments here. Some translations write the Hebrew word, and some translations do not include it. See how you translated this in [Psalms 3:2](../003/001.md). (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/translate-transliterate]])

# translationWords

* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/oath]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/holy]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/names/david]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/descendant]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/eternity]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/throne]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/faithful]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/testimony]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/heaven]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/selah]]