# How long, Yahweh? Will you hide yourself, forever?

The writer uses these questions to emphasize that he does not want God to continue to refuse the king. AT: "Please, Yahweh, do not refuse to help the king forever." (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-rquestion]])

# Will you hide yourself

God not helping the king is spoken of as if God were hiding from him. AT: "Will you refuse to help the king" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metaphor]])

# How long will your anger burn like fire?

The writer uses a question to emphasize that he does not want God to remain angry. AT: "Please do not continue being angry" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-rquestion]])

# your anger burn like fire

God being very angry is spoken of as if his anger were a hot fire. (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-simile]])

# for what uselessness you have created all the children of mankind

The abstract noun "uselessness" can be stated as "uselessly." AT: "that you have created all people to die uselessly" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-abstractnouns]])

# the children of mankind

This refers to humans in general. AT: "humans" or "people" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-gendernotations]])

# Who can live and not die, or rescue his own life from the hand of Sheol?

The writer uses these questions to emphasize that all people will die. AT: "No one can live forever or bring himself back to life after dying" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-rquestion]])

# rescue his own life from the hand of Sheol

Here "hand" refers to power. The writer speaks of Sheol as if it were a person who has power over those who die. Possible meanings are 1) a person cannot bring himself back to life after dying or 2) a person cannot keep himself from dying. (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metonymy]] and [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-personification]])