# Lord, where are your former acts of covenant faithfulness that you swore to David in your truthfulness?

The writer uses a question to request the Lord to be faithful to his covenant with David. AT: "Lord, be faithful to your covenant with David as you have been in the past" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-rquestion]])

# your former acts of covenant faithfulness

The abstract nouns "acts" and "faithfulness" can be translated with a verb and an adverb. AT: "the things that you did before that showed that you are faithful to your covenant" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-abstractnouns]])

# Call to mind

The writer asks Yahweh to bring this up in his memory. AT: "Remember" or "Consider" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-idiom]])

# the mocking directed against your servants

Here "your servants" refers to the people of Israel. AT: "how they mock us, your servants"

# how I bear in my heart so many insults from the nations

Here "heart" represents the person's emotions. AT: "I endure so many insults from the people of the nations" or "I suffer because the people from the nations insult me" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metonymy]])

# from the nations

Here "nations" represents the people of the nations. (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metonymy]])

# Your enemies hurl insults

The enemies shouting insults at the king is spoken of as if insults were an object that the enemies throw violently at the king. (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metaphor]])

# they mock the footsteps of your anointed one

Here "footsteps" represents where the king goes. AT: "they mock your anointed one wherever he goes" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metonymy]])

# translationWords

* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/lordgod]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/covenantfaith]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/oath]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/david]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/mock]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/true]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/call]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/mind]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/servant]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/heart]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/mock]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/anoint]]