# General Information:

Yahweh has just told them he will assign them to four groups to kill them—the sword, dogs, birds, and beasts.

# For who will have compassion for you, Jerusalem? Who will grieve for you? Who will turn to ask about your welfare?

Yahweh uses this rhetorical question to emphasize that no one should mourn for Jerusalem. This question can be written as a statement. AT: "No one should have compassion on you, Jerusalem. No one should mourn for your destruction. No one should ask about your well-being." (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-rquestion]])

# for you, Jerusalem

Here "Jerusalem" refers to the people who live there. AT: "for you people who live in Jerusalem" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metonymy]])

# You have forsaken me ... you have gone back from me

These two phrases mean basically the same thing and emphasize that the people have, indeed, forsaken Yahweh. (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-parallelism]])

# this is Yahweh's declaration

Yahweh speaks of himself by name to express the certainty of what he is declaring. See how you translated this in [Jeremiah 1:8](../01/07.md). AT: "this is what Yahweh has declared" or "this is what I, Yahweh, have declared" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-123person]])

# gone back from me

"left me" or "gone away from me"

# I will strike you with my hand

Here "hand" represents power. AT: "I will use my power to strike you" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metonymy]])

# So I will winnow them with a pitchfork at the gates of the land

Here Yahweh speaks of scattering the people and causing them to leave Jersalem as if they were winnowed chaff being blown away on the wind. (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metaphor]])

# pitchfork

a farm tool with a long handle and sharp metal prongs, used especially for lifting and tossing grain in the air for winnowing

# I will bereave them

"I will cause their children to die" or "I will let their enemies kill their children"

# translationWords

* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/compassion]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/turn]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/forsaken]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/hand]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/mercy]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/winnow]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/gate]]