# General Information:

Yahweh has just told them no one will care about them and that he will destroy his people since they would not turn from their wicked ways.

# widows

women whose husbands have died

# more than the sands of the seashore

"than the grains of sand on the seashore." This comparison is an exaggeration used to emphasize an uncountable number. AT: "more than you can count" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-hyperbole]])

# Against the mothers of young men I will send the destroyer at noonday

This means that Yahweh will send an enemy army to kill young men, which will cause their mothers great sorrow. AT: "At noonday I will send an enemy army to destroy young men and cause their mothers to weep" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-explicit]])

# fall on them

This is an idiom. AT: "happen to them" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-idiom]])

# She will be ashamed and embarrassed

The words "ashamed" and "embarrassed" mean basically the same thing and emphasize the intensity of shame. AT: "She will be completely ashamed" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-doublet]])

# will waste away

This is an idiom. AT: "will grow faint" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-idiom]])

# Her sun will set while it is still day

This speaks of a woman becoming sorrowful because her children have died, as if her life were a day in which the sun had set early and turned to darkness. Here the darkness represents her sorrow. AT: "Because of her sorrow, it will be as though the sun has set and her day has turned to darkness" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metaphor]])

# I will give those who remain to the sword in the presence of their enemies

Here the "sword" represents the enemy soldiers. This means that Yahweh will allow the enemy solider to kill any of her children that remain. AT: "I will allow the enemy soldiers to kill those of her children that remain alive" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metonymy]] and [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-explicit]])

# this is Yahweh's declaration

Yahweh speaks of himself by name to express the certainty of what he is declaring. See how you translated this in [Jeremiah 1:8](../01/07.md). AT: "this is what Yahweh has declared" or "this is what I, Yahweh, have declared" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-123person]])