# I did not sit in the circle of

This is an idiom. AT: "I did not spend time with" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-idiom]])

# of your powerful hand

Here Yahweh's "powerful hand" refers to his control and influence over Jeremiah. AT: "you powerfully influence me" or "you are the one who controls what I do" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metaphor]])

# Why is my pain ongoing and my wound incurable, refusing to be healed?

Jeremiah uses this rhetorical question to emphasize his pain. He speaks of his pain as if it were a physical wound. This question can be written as a statement. AT: "My pain is ongoing, it is like a wound that will not heal." (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-rquestion]] and [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metaphor]])

# refusing to be healed

This speaks of Jeremiah's wound as if it were a person that refuses to be healed. This can be stated in active form. AT: "that will not heal" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-personification]] and [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-activepassive]])

# Will you be like deceitful waters to me, waters that dry up?

Jeremiah uses this rhetorical question to emphasize that he feels like he cannot depend on Yahweh. He speaks of this as if Yahweh were a stream that dries up. AT: "It feels like you are undependable to me, like a stream I go to for a drink only to find it dried up." (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-rquestion]] and [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-simile]])

# translationWords

* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/rejoice]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/hand]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/heal]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/deceive]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/water]]