# you will be like my mouth

Jeremiah is compared to the mouth of Yahweh because he will be used to speak Yahweh's message. AT: "you will speak for me" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-simile]])

# you yourself

The pronoun, "yourself", is used here to emphasis the command was specifically for Jeremiah. (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-rpronouns]])

# like an impenetrable bronze wall to this people

Yahweh compares Jeremiah to a wall because the people will not be able to defeat him. AT: "I will make you strong, like a bronze wall" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-simile]])

# they will wage war against you

This speaks of the people fighting with Jeremiah as if he were an army that they waged war against. AT: "they will fight against you" or "they will oppose you" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metaphor]])

# save and rescue

The words "save" and "rescue" mean the same thing and emphasize the safety that God promises. (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-doublet]])

# this is Yahweh's declaration

Yahweh speaks of himself by name to express the certainty of what he is declaring. See how you translated this in [Jeremiah 1:8](../01/07.md). AT: "this is what Yahweh has declared" or "this is what I, Yahweh, have declared" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-123person]])

# rescue you from ... and redeem you from

These phrases have similar meanings and are used together to emphasize the safety that God provides. (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-parallelism]])

# the hand of the wicked ... the hand of the tyrant

Here the word "hand" represents control. AT: "the control of the wicked ... the control of the tyrant" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metonymy]])

# the wicked

This refers to wicked people. AT: "wicked people" or "those who are wicked" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-nominaladj]])

# tyrant

a ruler who demands absolute obedience and is not friendly for the people under his rule