# Connecting Statement:

Job continues to speak to his friends.

# Will not his majesty terrify you, and the dread of him fall upon you?

Job uses these questions to rebuke his friends. Possible meanings are 1) Job is saying that they should fear God. AT: "His majesty should make you afraid, and his dread should fall on you." or 2) Job is saying that they will fear God. AT: "His majesty will make you afraid, and his dread will fall on you!" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-rquestion]])

# and the dread of him fall upon you

Dread falling on people represents them becoming terribly afraid. AT: "and you not be terribly afraid" or "and you not be terrified" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metaphor]])

# Your memorable sayings are proverbs made of ashes

Ashes represent things that are worthless and do not last. AT: "Your memorable sayings are worthless like ashes" or "Your memorable sayings will be forgotten like ashes that are blown away" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metaphor]])

# your defenses are defenses made of clay

Job speaks of what they say as if it were a wall made of clay around a city; it cannot defend the people because clay breaks easily. AT: "What you say in defense is as useless as a wall of clay" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metaphor]])

# your defenses

Possible meanings are that this refers to 1) what they say to defend themselves or 2) what they say to defend God.

# translationWords

* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/majesty]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/fear]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/proverb]]