# Connecting Statement:

Job finishes presenting his case to God.

# For you write down bitter things against me

"Bitter things" represents accusations. AT: "For you write down accusations against me" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metaphor]])

# you make me inherit the iniquities of my youth

Inheriting the iniquities of his youth is a metaphor. Possible meanings are it represents 1) being guilty for the sins of his youth. AT: "you say that I am still guilty for the sins of my youth" or 2) being punished for the sins of his youth. AT: "you punish me for the sins of my youth" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metaphor]])

# the iniquities of my youth

The abstract noun "youth" can be translated with the word "young." AT: "the sins I committed when I was young" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-abstractnouns]])

# You also put my feet in the stocks

Doing this represents punishing Job and keeping him from living freely as if Job had committed a crime and was a prisoner. AT: "It is as though you put my feet in the stocks" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metaphor]])

# the stocks

Possible meanings are 1) a frame that holds a prisoner's feet in place so that he cannot move at all or 2) chains around a prisoner's feet that make it hard for him to walk. These are used as a form of punishment.

# all my paths

"Paths" represent the things Job does. AT: "everything I do" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metaphor]])

# you examine the ground where the soles of my feet have walked

The soles of his feet represent the person who walks. AT: "you examine the ground where I have walked" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-synecdoche]])

# you examine the ground where the soles of my feet have walked

Examining this ground represents examining all that Job has done. AT: "it is as though you examine the ground where I have walked" or "you examine everything I do like a person examining someone's footprints on the ground" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metaphor]])

# like a rotten thing that wastes away

Job compares his life to something that is decaying. He is slowly dying. (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-simile]])

# like a garment that moths have eaten

Job compares himself to clothes that are full of holes because the moths have eaten parts of it. (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-simile]])

# translationWords

* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/inherit]]