# Connecting Statement:

In order to warn his fellow believers about Jews who would try to get them to follow the old laws, Paul gives his own testimony about when he persecuted believers.

# Finally, my brothers

"Now moving along, my brothers" or "Concerning other matters, my brothers"

# brothers

See how you translated this in [Philippians 1:12](../01/12.md).

# rejoice in the Lord

"be happy because of all the Lord has done"

# For me to write these same things again to you is no trouble for me

"It is no trouble for me to write these things again to you"

# and it keeps you safe

Here "these things" refers to Paul's teachings. You can add this alternate translation to the end of the previous sentence. AT: "because these teachings will protect you from those who teach what is not true" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-explicit]])

# Watch out for

"Beware of" or "Look out for"

# the dogs ... the evil workers ... those who mutilate the flesh

These are three different ways of describing the same group of false teachers. Paul is using strong expressions to convey his feeling about these Jewish Christian teachers.

# dogs

The word "dogs" was used by the Jews to refer to those who were not Jews. They were considered unclean. Paul speaks of the false teachers as though they were dogs, to insult them. If you have a different animal in your culture that is considered unclean or whose name is used as an insult, you could use this animal instead. (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metaphor]] and [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-irony]])

# mutilate

Paul is exaggerating about the act of circumcision to insult the false teachers. The false teachers said God will only save a person who is circumcised, who cuts off the foreskin. This action was required by the law of Moses for all male Israelites. (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-hyperbole]] and [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metonymy]])

# For we are

Paul uses "we" to refer to himself and all true believers in Christ, including the Philippian believers. (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-inclusive]])

# the circumcision

Paul uses this phrase to refer to believers in Christ who are not physically circumcised but are spiritually circumcised, which means they have received the Holy Spirit through faith. "truly God's people"

# have no confidence in the flesh

"do not trust that only cutting our flesh will please God"

# translationWords

* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/brother]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/rejoice]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/lordgod]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/evil]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/circumcise]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/worship]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/holyspirit]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/jesus]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/confidence]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/flesh]]