## In fact ##

"Really," or "Truly,"

## now I count ##

The word "now" emphasizes how Paul has changed since he quit being a Pharisee and became a believer in Christ. This can made explicit: "now that I have trusted in Christ." (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-explicit]])

## I count all things to be loss ##

Paul states it is worthless to trust in anything other than Christ. This can be translated as "I consider everything to be worthless."

## because of the excellency of the knowledge of Christ Jesus my Lord. ##

"because knowing Christ Jesus my Lord is worth so much more."

## For him I have discarded all things ##

This could be translated as "Because of him I have willingly rejected everything else."

## I consider them garbage ##

Paul compares anything a person may trust in to waste that is thrown out. He is emphasizing how worthless they really are. It could be translated as "I think of them as trash" or "I think of them as completely worthless. (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metaphor]])

## so that I may gain Christ ##

"so that I may have Christ alone"

## and now I am found in him ##

The phrase "found in him" means to have a close relationship or to be united with him. This can be translated with an active verb: "and now I have a relationship with christ" or "and now I am united with christ." (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-activepassive]])

## I do not have a righteousness of my own from the law. ##

"I am not trying to please God on my own by obeying the law."

## Instead, I have ##

"Rather, I have" or "Exactly the opposite, I have"

## I have the righteousness from God that is through faith in Christ. ##

"God has accepted me because I have put my trust in Christ."

## It is a righteousness of knowing him ##

This can be translated as "I only want Christ so that I might know him"

## the power of his resurrection ##

"and know his power that gives us life"

## the fellowship of his sufferings ##

"and share in his sufferings"

## and I am transformed by Christ into the likeness of his death ##

The word "transform" means to change one thing into something else. The way Jesus died resulted in eternal life. So, Paul wants his death to be like Jesus' death so he may also receive eternal life. This can be translated with an active clause: "and Christ has changed me into the likeness of his death" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-activepassive]])

## so somehow I may experience the resurrection from the dead ##

The word "somehow" means Paul does not know what is going to happen to him in this life, but whatever happens it will somehow result in eternal life. This could be translated as "so that, no matter what happens to me now, I will come back to life after I die."