# Connecting Statement:

Paul urges the believers at Philippi to follow his present example because of heaven and the new bodies that wait for believers. He speaks of how he works as hard as he can to be like Christ, knowing that God will allow him to live forever in heaven, as if he were a runner racing for the finish line.

# received these things

These include knowing Christ, knowing the power of his resurrection, sharing in Christ's suffering, and being united with Christ in his death and resurrection ([Philippians 3:8-11](./08.md)).

# or that I have become complete

"so I am not yet perfect" or "so I am not yet mature"

# But I press on

"But I keep trying"

# I may grasp that for which I was grasped by Christ Jesus

Receiving spiritual things from Christ is spoken of as if Paul could grasp them with his hands. And, Jesus choosing Paul to belong to him is spoken of as if Jesus grasped Paul with his hands. This can be stated in an active form. AT: "I may receive these things because that is why Jesus claimed me as his own" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metaphor]] and [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-activepassive]])

# Brothers

See how you translated this in [Philippians 1:12](../01/12.md).

# I myself have yet grasped it

Receiving spiritual things from Christ is spoken of as if Paul could grasp them with his hands. AT: "all these things belong to me yet" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metaphor]])

# I forget what is behind and strain for what is ahead

Like a runner in a race is no longer concerned about the part of the race that is completed but only focuses on what is ahead, Paul speaks of setting aside his religious works of righteousness and only focusing on the race of life that Christ has set before him to complete. AT: "I do not care what I have done in the past; I only work as hard as I can on what is ahead" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metaphor]])

# I press on toward the goal to win the prize of the upward calling of God in Christ Jesus

As a runner presses onward to win the race, Paul presses onward in serving and living in obedience to Christ. AT: "I do all I can to be like Christ, like a runner racing to the finish line, so that I may belong to him, and God may call me to himself after I die" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metaphor]])

# the upward calling

Possible meanings are that Paul speaks of living eternally with God as if God were to call Paul to ascend 1) to heaven as Jesus did or 2) the steps to the podium where winners of races received prizes, as a metaphor for meeting God face to face and receiving eternal life. (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metaphor]])