# Be imitators of me

"Do what I do" or "Live as I live"

# brothers

See how you translated this in [Philippians 1:12](../01/12.md).

# those who are walking by the example that you have in us

"those who already are living as I live" or "those who already are doing what I do"

# Many are walking ... as enemies of the cross of Christ

These words are Paul's main thought for this verse.

# Many are walking

A person's behavior is spoken of as if that person were walking along a path. AT: "Many are living" or "Many are conducting their lives" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metaphor]])

# those about whom I have often told you, and now I am telling you with tears

Paul interrupts his main thought with these words that describe the "many." You can move them to the beginning or end of the verse if you need to.

# I have often told you

"I have told you many times"

# am telling you with tears

"am telling you with great sadness"

# as enemies of the cross of Christ

Here "the cross of Christ" refers to Christ's suffering and death. The enemies are those who say they believe in Jesus but are not willing to suffer or die like Jesus did. AT: "in a way that shows they are actually against Jesus, who was willing to suffer and die on a cross" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metonymy]])

# Their end is destruction

"Someday God will destroy them." The last thing that happens to them is that God will destroy them.

# their god is their stomach

Here "stomach" refers to a person's desires for physical pleasure. Calling it their god means that they want these pleasures more than they want to obey God. AT: "they desire food and other physical pleasures more than they desire to obey God" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metaphor]])

# their pride is in their shame

Here "shame" stands for the actions that the people should be ashamed about but are not. AT: "they are proud of the things that should cause them shame" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metonymy]])

# They think about earthly things

Here "earthly" refers to everything that gives physical pleasure and does not honor God. AT: "All they think about is what will please themselves rather than what will please God" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metonymy]])

# translationWords

* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/brother]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/cross]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/christ]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/destiny]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/falsegod]]