# General Information:

Ezekiel tells about a message that Yahweh gave him.

# The word of Yahweh came

This is an idiom that is used to introduce something that God told his prophets or his people. See how you translated this in [Ezekiel 3:16](../03/16.md). AT: "Yahweh spoke this message" or "Yahweh spoke these words" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-idiom]])

# Son of man

"Son of a human being" or "Son of humanity." God calls Ezekiel this to emphasize that Ezekiel is only a human being. God is eternal and powerful, but humans are not. See how you translated this in [Ezekiel 2:1](../02/01.md). AT: "Mortal person" or "Human"

# Wail

"Cry out with grief." This command is to Egypt and the nations around Egypt.

# Woe is the coming day

This exclamation expresses the fear that people would feel about a certain day when terrible and frightening things will happen. AT: "Oh that day" or "Oh, what a frightening day is coming" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-exclamations]])

# The day is near

"That day is soon" or "It will soon be that day"

# The day is near for Yahweh

It is implied that on that day, Yahweh will punish people. AT: "It will soon be the day when Yahweh will punish you" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-explicit]])

# a day of clouds

Dark storm clouds represent danger and fear. AT: "It will be like a day with dark clouds" or "It will be frightening like a day with dark clouds" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metaphor]])

# a time of doom for nations

The abstract noun "doom" can be translated with the phrase "terrible things will happen." AT: "a time when terrible things will happen to the nations" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-abstractnouns]])

# translationWords

* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/wordofgod]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/sonofman]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/prophet]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/lordyahweh]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/woe]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/nation]]