# General Information:

These are Yahweh's words about Egypt.

# Then a sword will come against Egypt

The word "sword" here represents war or an army that attacks. AT: "There will be war against Egypt" or "An enemy army will attack Egypt" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metonymy]])

# there will be anguish in Cush

The abstract noun "anguish" can be expressed in terms of how the people feel. AT: "the people of Cush will be very sad" or "the people of Cush will suffer" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-abstractnouns]])

# when the killed people fall in Egypt

Possible meanings are that 1) "fall" is a euphemism for dying. AT: "when people in Egypt die in war" or 2) "fall" refers to their bodies falling and lying on the ground. AT: "when people in Egypt die in war and lie fallen" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-euphemism]])

# when they take her wealth

"when the attackers take away the wealth of Egypt"

# when her foundations are ruined

This can be translated in active form. AT: "when the attackers destroy the foundations of the buildings in Egypt" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-activepassive]])

# Cush and Put, Lydia and all Arabia, and Libya

These names refer to the people of these countries. AT: "The people of Cush and Put, Libya, and all Arabia, and Lydia" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metonymy]])

# Libya

Libya is a country west of Egypt. (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/translate-names]])

# Lydia

This probably refers to the kingdom of Lydia which was in what is now Turkey.

# the people belonging to the covenant

Possible meanings are 1) the "covenant" refers to the agreement that Yahweh made with the Israelites. AT: "the Jews who live in Egypt" or 2) the "covenant" refers to an agreement that Egypt made with other nations. AT: "the people of the nations that had a covenant with Egypt" or "Egypt's allies" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-explicit]])

# will all fall by the sword

Here the sword represents battle. AT: "will all die in battle" or "will all die in the war" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metonymy]])

# will all fall by the sword

The word "all" here is a generalization. It means that many people will die. (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-hyperbole]])