# General Information:

These are Yahweh's words about Egypt.

# Then they

Possible meanings are 1) "Then people" or 2) "Then the Egyptians."

# they will know that I am Yahweh

Yahweh is implying that they will know that he is the one true God who has supreme authority and power. See how you translated as similar phrase in [Ezekiel 6:7](../06/06.md). AT: "they will understand that I am Yahweh, the one true God" or "they will realize that I, Yahweh, have supreme power and authority" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-explicit]])

# when I set fire in Egypt

Here "set fire in Egypt" represents sending an army to attack Egypt and set fires. AT: "when I send an army to burn Egypt with fire" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metonymy]])

# all of her helpers are destroyed

This can be stated in active form. AT: "I destroy all of the allies of Egypt" or "when armies destroy all of those who help Egypt" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-activepassive]])

# messengers will go out from before me in ships to terrorize a secure Cush

Messengers will bring the news of Egypt's destruction to Cush, who will be frightened by the news.

# to terrorize a secure Cush

"in order to frighten Cush, who now feels safe from danger"

# there will be anguish among them on the day of Egypt's doom

The abstract noun "anguish" and "doom" can be translated with the words "suffer" and "punish." AT: "the people of Cush will also suffer when I punish Egypt" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-abstractnouns]])

# behold!

The word "behold" here adds emphasis to what follows. It can also be translated as "indeed!"

# It is coming

"It" refers to the "great pain" or "great sorrow" that Cush will have when they are punished along with Egypt.