# General Information:

These are Yahweh's words about Egypt.

# Heliopolis and Bubastis

These were cities in northern Egypt. (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/translate-names]])

# will fall by the sword

The word "sword" is used here to refer to a battle or war. AT: "will die in battle" or "will die in the war" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metonymy]])

# their cities will go into captivity

Here "cities" represents the people of the cities. The abstract noun "captivity" can be expressed with the more concrete noun "captive" or the verb "capture" AT: "the people of their cities will become captives" or "their enemies will capture their people and take them away" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metonymy]])

# Tahpanhes

This was an important city in northern Egypt.

# the day will hold back its light

The day is spoken of as if it were able to keep its own light from shining. AT: "the day will be dark" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-personification]])

# when I break the yoke of Egypt there

The word "yoke" here refers to Egypt's power to oppress people. AT: "when I stop Egypt from oppressing people" or "when I end Egypt's power to cruelly control other nations" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metaphor]])

# the pride of her strength will be finished

This represents Egypt no longer being proud of their strength. The reason that they will not be proud is that they will no longer be strong. AT: "Egypt will no longer be proud about being strong" or "Egypt will no longer have the strength that they were so proud of" (See:[[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metaphor]] and [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-explicit]])

# There will be a cloud covering her

Possible meanings are 1) the dark cloud represents how sad the people of Egypt will feel. AT: "It will be as if there is a cloud over Egypt" or 2) there will be a cloud of dust over Egypt from everything that is destroyed. AT: "A cloud of dust will be over Egypt" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metaphor]])

# her daughters

Possible meanings are 1) the people of the Egyptian towns or 2) the daughters of the Egyptian people

# I will execute acts of judgment in Egypt

The phrase "acts of judgment" refers to punishment. AT: "I will punish Egypt in many ways" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-abstractnouns]])

# so they

"so the Egyptians"