# General Information:

God speaks of making Pharaoh's army weak as if he were to break Pharaoh's arm, and of the army not being able to become strong again as if Pharaoh's arm could not be healed. (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-parables]])

# Then it came about

This phrase is used here to mark the beginning of a new part of the story. If your language has a way for doing this, you could consider using it here. (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/writing-newevent]])

# in the eleventh year

This is the eleventh year after King Jehoiachin was taken into exile in Babylon. See how you translated this in [Ezekiel 26:1](../26/01.md).

# in the first month, in the seventh day of the month

"in the seventh day of the first month." This is the first month of the Hebrew calendar. The seventh day is near the beginning of April on Western calendars. (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/translate-hebrewmonths]] and [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/translate-ordinal]])

# the word of Yahweh came

This is an idiom that is used to introduce something that God told his prophets or his people. See how you translated this in [Ezekiel 3:16](../03/16.md). AT: "Yahweh spoke this message" or "Yahweh spoke these words" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-idiom]])

# Son of man

"Son of a human being" or "Son of humanity." God calls Ezekiel this to emphasize that Ezekiel is only a human being. God is eternal and powerful, but humans are not. See how you translated this in [Ezekiel 2:1](../02/01.md). AT: "Mortal person" or "Human"

# I have broken the arm of Pharaoh

Here "arm" represents the powerful army of a king. (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-parables]] and [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metaphor]])

# Behold

"Pay attention, because what I am about to say is both true and important"

# It has not been bound up

This can be stated in active form. AT: "No one has bound up his arm" or "No one has wrapped up his arm" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-activepassive]])

# or set to heal with a bandage

Here "set to heal with a bandage" refers to the arm being wrapped tightly in a bandage so that the parts of the bone will stay together and heal.

# translationWords

* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/biblicaltimeyear]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/biblicaltimeday]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/names/pharaoh]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/king]]