# give way to the wrath of God

Here "wrath" is a metonym for God's punishment. AT: "allow God to punish them" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metonymy]])

# For it is written

You can translate this in an active form. AT: "For someone has written" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-activepassive]])

# Vengeance belongs to me; I will repay

These two phrases mean basically the same thing and emphasize that God will avenge his people. AT: "I will certainly avenge you" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-parallelism]])

# your enemy ... feed him ... give him a drink ... if you do this, you will heap ... Do not be overcome by evil, but overcome evil

All forms of "you" and "your" are addressed as to one person. (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-you]])

# But if your enemy is hungry ... his head

In 12:20 Paul quotes another part of Scripture. AT: "But the Scripture also says, 'If your enemy is hungry ... his head'"

# feed him

"give him some food"

# heap coals of fire on his head

Paul speaks of the blessings that the enemies will receive as if someone were pouring hot coals on their heads. Possible meanings are 1) "make the person who harmed you feel badly about how he has mistreated you" or 2) "give God a reason to judge your enemy more harshly." (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metaphor]])

# Do not be overcome by evil, but overcome evil with good

Paul describes "evil" as though it were a person. You can translate this in an active form. AT: "Do not let those who are evil defeat you, but defeat those who are evil by doing what is good" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-personification]] and [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-activepassive]])

# translationWords

* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/avenge]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/beloved]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/wrath]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/written]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/lordgod]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/adversary]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/fire]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/evil]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/good]]