# General Information:

Parallelism is common in Hebrew poetry. (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/writing-poetry]] and [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-parallelism]])

# General Information:

This psalm is a prayer for help.

# For the chief musician

"This is for the director of music to use in worship"

# set to Shoshannim

This may refer to a style of music. See how you translated this in [Psalms 45:1](../045/001.md).

# A psalm of David

Possible meanings are 1) David wrote the psalm or 2) the psalm is about David or 3) the psalm is in the style of David's psalms.

# for the waters have put my life in danger

The writer describes the troubles in his life as if he were drowning in a flood of water. AT: "for it feels like I am drowning in the waters" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metaphor]])

# I sink in deep mire

The writer describes the troubles in his life as if he were sinking in deep mud. AT: "For it feels like I am sinking in deep mud and will die" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metaphor]])

# mire

thick mud

# there is no place to stand

The writer uses a negative statement to stress how unstable and uncertain his condition is. (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-litotes]])

# I have come into deep waters, where the floods flow over me

The writer describes his problems as if he was drowning in a deep, raging river. AT: "t feels like I am in deep waters, and the floodwaters flow over me" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metaphor]])

# translationWords

* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/psalm]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/names/david]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/save]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/god]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/water]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/flood]]