# For your sake

"On your behalf" or "For you"

# I have borne rebuke

The rebukes of the writer's enemies are spoken of as if they are a heavy load that he has had to carry. AT: "I have endured the insults of my enemies" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metaphor]])

# shame has covered my face

The writer speaks of the shame that he feels as if it is a foul thing on his face that everyone can clearly see. AT: "I am thoroughly humiliated" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metaphor]])

# I have become a stranger to my brothers

The writer speaks of himself as if he were not part of his own family. AT: "My brothers no longer know or accept me at all" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metaphor]])

# a stranger to my brothers ... an alien to my mother's children

These two phrases mean the same thing. They are repeated to stress his separation from his own family. (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-parallelism]])

# an alien to my mother's children

It is implied that "I have become" should be understood here. The writer speaks of himself as if he were not part of his own family. AT: "my brothers no longer know or trust me at all" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-ellipsis]] and [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metaphor]])

# the zeal of your house has eaten me up

The writer speaks of his zeal for God's temple as if it was a wild animal that devours the writer. AT: "the zeal I have for your house consumes me" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-personification]])

# has eaten me up

This idiom means that the writer's zeal for the temple takes over all of his thoughts and actions. AT: "completely controls all that I think and do" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-idiom]])

# the rebukes ... have fallen on me

The writer speaks of the rebukes of Gods' enemies as if they were rocks that were thrown at the writer. AT: "those who rebuke you have also thrown their rebukes at me" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metaphor]])

# translationWords

* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/rebuke]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/shame]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/face]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/brother]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/zealous]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/house]]