# at a time that you will accept

"in your accepted time" or "when you are willing"

# answer me in the trustworthiness of your salvation

The abstract nouns "trustworthiness" and "salvation" can be stated as "faithfully" and "rescue." AT: "rescue me because you faithfully love me, as you have promised to do" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-abstractnouns]])

# Pull me out ... do not let me sink

These two phrases mean the same thing. (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-parallelism]])

# Pull me out of the mire, and do not let me sink

The writer speaks of his danger from his enemies as if he was sinking into a pit of mud. "Do not allow me to sink anymore in the mud" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metaphor]])

# let me be taken away

Here "take away" refers to being removed from danger. This can be stated in active form. AT: "take me away" or "rescue me" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-idiom]] and [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-activepassive]])

# rescued out

It is understood that "let me be" is implied here. It can be stated in active form. AT: "please rescue me out" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-ellipsis]] and [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-activepassive]])

# the deep water ... the floods of water ... the deep

These phrases mean the same thing. (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-parallelism]])

# rescued out of the deep waters

The writer speaks about his danger from his enemies as if he was drowning in deep water. (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metaphor]])

# the floods of water overwhelm me

The writer speaks about his danger from his enemies as if flood waters were covering him completely. (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metaphor]])

# the deep swallow me up

The writer speaks of the deep as if it was a deadly animal that was about to eat him. AT: "the deep waters swallow me up like a dangerous animal" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-personification]] and [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metaphor]])

# Do not let the pit shut its mouth on me

Here the "pit" is spoken of as if it has a mouth like a person and could eat the writer. AT: "Do not let the pit consume me" or "Do not let the pit of death close over me" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-personification]] and [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metaphor]])