# Connecting Statement:

Yahweh continues to speak to Babylon about her downfall as if she were a queen who is humiliated. (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metaphor]] and [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-personification]])

# Your nakedness will be uncovered

This can be stated in active form. AT: "You will be naked" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-activepassive]])

# your shame will be seen

Here the word "shame" is a euphemism for one's private parts. This can be translated in active form. AT: "people will see your shame" or "people will see your private parts" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-euphemism]] and [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-activepassive]])

# Our Redeemer

"Our" refers to Isaiah and the people of Israel. See how you translated "Redeemer" in [Isaiah 41:14](../41/14.md). (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-inclusive]])

# Yahweh of hosts

See how you translated this phrase in [Isaiah 1:24](../01/24.md).

# Holy One of Israel

See how you translated this phrase in [Isaiah 5:16](../05/15.md).

# daughter of the Chaldeans

This phrase refers to the city, Babylon, which is spoken of as if it were a daughter. That the city is a "daughter" indicates how the Chaldeans think fondly of her. See how you translated this phrase in [Isaiah 47:1](../41/01.md).

# for you will no longer be called

This can be stated in active form. AT: "for people will no longer call you" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-activepassive]])

# queen of kingdoms

Yahweh speaks of Babylon being the capital city of the Babylonian empire as if it were a queen who ruled many kingdoms. (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metaphor]])

# translationWords

* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/shame]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/avenge]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/redeem]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/yahwehofhosts]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/name]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/holyone]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/israel]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/darkness]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/chaldeans]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/queen]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/kingdom]]