# General Information:

Moses continues speaking to the people of Israel.

# If there arises among you

"If there appears among you" or "If someone among you claims to be"

# a dreamer of dreams

This is someone who receives messages from God through dreams.

# a sign or a wonder

These two words have similar meanings and refer to various miracles. (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-doublet]])

# comes about

"takes place" or "happens"

# of which he spoke to you and said, 'Let us go after other gods, that you have not known, and let us worship them,' do not

This can be translated as an indirect quotation. AT: "and he tells you to serve and worship other gods which you have not known, do not" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-quotations]])

# Let us go after other gods

Worshiping other gods is spoken of as if they were going after or following other gods. AT: "Let us follow other gods" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metaphor]])

# go after other gods, that you have not known

The phrase "gods, that you have not known" refers to the gods that other people groups worship. The Israelites know Yahweh because he has revealed himself to them and they have experienced his power.

# do not listen to the words of that prophet, or to that dreamer of dreams

"do not listen to what that prophet say nor to what the dreamer of dreams says"

# with all your heart and with all your soul

Here "heart" and "soul" are metonyms for a person's inner being. These two phrases are used together to mean "completely" or "earnestly." See how you translated this in [Deuteronomy 4:29](../04/29.md). (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metonymy]] and [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-doublet]])

# translationWords

* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/raise]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/prophet]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/dream]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/miracle]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/falsegod]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/know]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/worship]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/word]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/yahweh]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/god]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/test]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/love]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/heart]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/soul]]