# You will walk after Yahweh your God

Obeying and worshiping Yahweh is spoken of as if the people were walking after or following Yahweh. AT: "You will obey Yahweh" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metaphor]])

# obey his voice

Here "voice" represents what Yahweh says. AT: "obey what he says" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metonymy]])

# cling to him

To have a good relationship with Yahweh and to completely rely on him is spoken of as if the person were clinging to Yahweh. AT: "rely on him" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metaphor]])

# will be put to death

This can be stated in active form. AT: "you must kill" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-activepassive]])

# he has spoken rebellion

The abstract noun "rebellion" can be stated as a verb. AT: "he has tried to make you rebel" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-abstractnouns]])

# who redeemed you out of the house of bondage

Yahweh rescuing the people of Israel from being slaves in Egypt is spoken of as if Yahweh paid money to redeem his people out of slavery. AT: "who rescued you out of the place where you were slaves" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metaphor]])

# the house of bondage

Here "house of bondage" represents Egypt where the people of Yahweh had been slaves. AT: "Egypt where you were slaves" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metonymy]])

# draw you out of the way in which Yahweh your God commanded you to walk

How God wants a person to live or behave is spoken of as if it were a way or road on which God wants his people to walk. A person trying to cause someone else to stop obeying God is spoken of as if the person were trying to get the other person to stop walking on God's way or road. AT: "make you disobey what Yahweh your God commanded" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metaphor]])

# So put away the evil from among you

Here "the evil" refers to the evil person or the evil behavior. This nominal adjective can be stated as an adjective. AT: "So you must remove from among the people of Israel the person who does this evil thing" or "So you must kill this evil person" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-nominaladj]])

# translationWords

* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/walk]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/honor]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/command]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/obey]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/voice]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/worship]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/death]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/rebel]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/egypt]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/redeem]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/house]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/enslave]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/evil]]