# General Information:

This is a new event; it is now the Day of Pentecost, 50 days after Passover.

# General Information:

Here the word "they" refers to the apostles and the other 120 believers that Luke mentions in [Acts 1:15](../01/15.md).

# Suddenly

This word refers to an event that happens unexpectedly.

# there came from heaven a sound

Possible meanings are 1) "heaven" refers to the place where God lives. AT: "a sound came from heaven" or 2) "heaven" refers to the sky. AT: "a sound came from the sky"

# a sound like the rush of a violent wind

"a noise that sounded like a very strong wind blowing"

# the whole house

This may have been a house or a larger building.

# There appeared to them tongues like fire

These might not be actual tongues or fire, but something that looked like them. Possible meanings are 1) tongues that looked like they were made of fire or 2) small flames of fire that looked like tongues. When fire burns in a small space, such as on a lamp, the flame can be shaped like a tongue. (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-simile]])

# that were distributed, and they sat upon each one of them

This means that the "tongues like fire" spread out so that there was one on each person.

# They were all filled with the Holy Spirit and

This can be stated in active form. AT: "The Holy Spirit filled all of those who were there and they" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-activepassive]])

# speak with other languages

These are languages that they did not already know.

# translationWords

* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/pentecost]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/heaven]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/tongue]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/fire]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/filled]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/holyspirit]]