# General Information:

Verse 5 gives background information about the large number of Jews who were living in Jerusalem, many of whom were present during this event. (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/writing-background]])

# General Information:

Here the word "them" refers to the believers; the word "his" refers to each person in the multitude.

# godly men

Here "godly men" refers to people who were devout in their worship of God and tried to obey all of the Jewish laws.

# every nation under heaven

"every nation in the world." The word "every" is an exaggeration that emphasizes that the people came from many different nations. AT: "many different nations" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-hyperbole]])

# When this sound was heard

This refers to the sound that was similar to a strong wind. AT: "When they heard this sound" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-activepassive]])

# the multitude

"the large crowd of people"

# They were amazed and marveled

These two words share similar meanings. Together they emphasize the intensity of amazement. AT: "They were greatly amazed" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-doublet]])

# Really, are not all these who are speaking Galileans?

The people ask this question to express their amazement. The question could be changed to an exclamation. AT: "All of these Galileans could not possibly know our languages!" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-rquestion]] and [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-exclamations]])

# translationWords

* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/jew]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/jerusalem]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/nation]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/amazed]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/galilee]]