# Connecting Statement:

Peter continues his speech to the Jews that he began in [Acts 1:16](../01/15.md).

# hear these words

"listen to what I am about to say"

# accredited to you by God by the mighty deeds, the wonders, and the signs

This means that God proved that he had appointed Jesus for his mission, and proved who he was by his many miracles.

# by God's predetermined plan and foreknowledge

The nouns "plan" and "foreknowledge" can be translated as verbs. This means that God planned out and knew beforehand what would happen to Jesus. AT: "because God planned out and knew beforehand everything that would happen" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-abstractnouns]])

# was handed over

Possible meanings: 1) "you handed Jesus over into the hands of his enemies" or 2) "Judas betrayed Jesus to you." (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-activepassive]])

# you, by the hand of lawless men, put him to death by nailing him to a cross

Although "lawless men" actually crucified Jesus, Peter accuses the crowd of having killed him because they demanded his death.

# by the hand of lawless men

Here "hand" refers to the actions of the lawless men. AT: "through the actions of lawless men" or "by what lawless men did" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metonymy]])

# lawless men

Possible meanings are 1) the unbelieving Jews who accused Jesus of crimes or 2) the Roman soldiers who performed the execution of Jesus.

# But God raised him up

"Raise" is an idiom for "cause to live again" AT: "But God caused him to live again" (See: rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-idiom)

# freeing him from the pains of death

Peter speaks of death as if it were a person who ties people up with painful cords. AT: "having freed him from the pain that death causes" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-personification]]) 

# freeing him

"freeing him" is an idiom meaning that he has been given the ability to do as he wants. AT: "giving him the ability to leave behind the pain that death causes." (See: rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-idiom).

# for him to be held by it

"that he should be held by death." This can be stated in active form. AT: "that death should hold him" or "that death should keep him in its power" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-personification]] and [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-activepassive]])

# translationWords

* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/israel]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/jesus]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/names/nazareth]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/mighty]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/works]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/sign]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/foreordain]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/lawful]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/crucify]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/raise]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/death]]