# General Information:

Here Peter quotes a passage that David wrote in a Psalm which relates to Jesus' crucifixion and resurrection.

# General Information:

Since Peter says that David said these words about Jesus, the words "I" and "my" refer to Jesus and the words "Lord" and "he" refer to God.

# before my face

"in front of me." AT: "in my presence" or "with me" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-synecdoche]] and [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-idiom]])

# beside my right hand

To be at someone's "right hand" often means to be in a position to help and sustain. AT: "right beside me" or "with me to help me" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-synecdoche]] and [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-idiom]])

# I should not be moved

Here the word "moved" means to be troubled. This can be stated in active form. AT: "people will not be able to cause me trouble" or "nothing will trouble me" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-activepassive]])

# my heart was glad and my tongue rejoiced

People consider the "heart" the center of emotions and the "tongue" voices those emotions. AT: "I was glad and rejoiced" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-synecdoche]])

# my flesh will live in certain hope

Possible meanings of the word "flesh" are 1) he is a mortal who will die. AT: "Even though I am only mortal, I will have confidence in God" or 2) it is synecdoche for his entire person. AT: "I will live with confidence in God" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-synecdoche]])

# translationWords

* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/names/david]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/lordgod]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/hand]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/heart]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/tongue]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/joy]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/flesh]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/confidence]]