# Connecting Statement:

Peter continues his speech that he began in [Acts 1:16](../01/15.md) to the Jews that surround him and the other believers in Jerusalem.

# General Information:

In verses 29 & 30, the words he," "his," and "him" refer to David. In verse 31, the first "He" refers to David and the words within the quote "He" and "his" refer to Christ.

# Brothers

"Fellow Jews"

# he both died and was buried

This can be stated in active form. AT: "he died and people buried him" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-activepassive]])

# he would set one of the fruit of his body upon his throne

"God would set one of David's descendants upon David's throne." AT: "God would appoint one of David's descendants to be king in David's place" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metonymy]])

# one of the fruit of his body

Here the word "fruit" refers to what "his body" produces. AT: "one of his descendants" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-idiom]])

# He foresaw this

"He knew this before it happened." Peter uses this language to speak of knowing something beforehand as if it were seen beforehand. (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metaphor]])

# He foresaw

In this case, God enabled David to speak about the Messiah's resurrection. (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-explicit]])

# He was neither abandoned to Hades

This can be stated in active form. AT: "God did not abandon him to Hades" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-activepassive]])

# nor did his flesh see decay

Here the word "see" means to experience something. The word "decay" refers to the decomposition of his body after death. See how you translated this in [Acts 2:27](./27.md). AT: "nor did his flesh decay" or "nor did he remain dead long enough for his flesh to decay" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-explicit]])

# translationWords

* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/brother]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/patriarchs]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/david]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/death]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/tomb]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/prophet]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/god]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/oath]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/fruit]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/throne]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/resurrection]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/hades]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/flesh]]