# Connecting Statement:

This is the end of the part of the story that happened on the Day of Pentecost. Verse 42 begins a section that explains how the believers continued to live after the Day of Pentecost. (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/writing-endofstory]])

# he testified and urged them

"he seriously told them and begged them." Here the words "testified" and "urged" share similar meanings and emphasize that Peter urged them strongly to respond to what he was saying. AT: "he strongly urged them" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-doublet]])

# Save yourselves from this wicked generation

The implication is that God will punish "this wicked generation." AT: "Save yourselves from the punishment that these wicked people will suffer" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-explicit]])

# they received his word

Here the word "received" means that they accepted what Peter said to be true. AT: "they believed what Peter said" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-idiom]])

# were baptized

This can be stated in active form. AT: "people baptized them" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-activepassive]])

# there were added in that day about three thousand souls

This can be stated in active form. AT: "about three thousand souls joined the believers on that day" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-activepassive]])

# about three thousand souls

Here the word "souls" refers to people. AT: "about 3,000 people" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-synecdoche]] and [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/translate-numbers]])

# the breaking of bread

Bread was part of their meals. Possible meanings are 1) this refers to any meals they might eat together. AT: "eating meals together" or 2) this refers to the meals they would eat together in order to remember Christ's death and resurrection. AT: "eating the Lord's Supper together" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-synecdoche]])