# Connecting Statement:

Here the writer warns believers not to disobey but to enter into the rest God offers. He reminds them that God's word will convict them and that they can come in prayer with the confidence that God will help them.

# if Joshua had given them rest

The peace and security provided by God are spoken of as if they were rest that Joshua could give. AT: "if Joshua had brought the Israelites to the place where God would give them rest" or "if the Israelites during the time of Joshua had experienced God's blessings of rest" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metaphor]])

# there is still a Sabbath rest reserved for God's people

This can be stated in active form. AT: "there is still a Sabbath rest that God has reserved for his people" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-activepassive]])

# a Sabbath rest

Eternal peace and security are spoken of as if they were the Sabbath day, the Jewish day of worship and rest from working. AT: "an eternal rest" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metaphor]])

# he who enters into God's rest

The peace and security provided by God are spoken of as if they are a place to enter. AT: "the person who enters into God's place of rest" or "the person who experiences God's blessings of rest" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metaphor]])

# let us be eager to enter that rest

The peace and security provided by God are spoken of as if they were a place to enter. AT: "we should also do everything we can to rest with God where he is" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metaphor]])

# will fall into the kind of disobedience that they did

Disobedience is spoken of as if it were a hole that a person could physically fall into by accident. This passage can be reworded so that the abstract noun "disobedience" is expressed as the verb "disobey." AT: "will disobey in the same way as they did" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metaphor]] and [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-abstractnouns]])

# that they did

Here "they" refers to the Hebrews' ancestors during the time of Moses.

# translationWords

* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/names/joshua]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/rest]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/sabbath]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/peopleofgod]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/works]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/disobey]]