# the word of God is living

Here "word of God" refers to anything that God has communicated to humanity whether through speech or through written messages. AT: "the words of God are living" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metonymy]])

# living and active

This speaks about God's word as if it were alive. It means when God speaks, it is powerful and effective. (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-personification]])

# sharper than any two-edged sword

A two-edged sword can easily cut through a person's flesh. God's word is very effective in showing what is in a person's heart and thoughts. (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metaphor]])

# two-edged sword

a sword with a blade that is sharp on both edges

# It pierces even to the division of soul from spirit, and joints from marrow

This continues speaking about God's word as if it were a sword. Here the sword is so sharp that it can cut through and divide parts of the human that are very difficult or even impossible to divide. This means that there is nothing inside us that we can hide from God. (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metaphor]])

# soul from spirit

These are two different but closely related nonphysical parts of a human. The "soul" is what causes a person to be alive. The "spirit" is the part of a person that causes him to be able to know and believe in God.

# joints from marrow

The "joint" is what holds two bones together. The "marrow" is the center part of the bone.

# It is able to know

This speaks about God's word as if it were a person who could know something. AT: "God's word exposes" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-personification]])

# the heart's thoughts and intentions

"Heart" is a metonym for "inner self".  AT: "what a person is thinking and intends to do" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metonymy]])

# Nothing created is hidden before God

This can be stated in active form. AT: "Nothing that God has created can hide from him" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-activepassive]])

# everything is bare and open

This speaks about all things as if they were a person standing bare, or a box that is open. AT: "everything is completely exposed" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metaphor]])

# bare and open

These two words mean basically the same thing and emphasize that nothing is hidden from God. (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-doublet]])

# to the eyes of the one to whom we must give account

God is spoken of as if he had eyes. AT: "to God, who will judge how we have lived" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metaphor]])

# translationWords

* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/wordofgod]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/life]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/sword]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/pierce]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/soul]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/spirit]]