# General Information:

Although this letter does not mention the recipients to whom it was sent, the author wrote particularly to Hebrews (Jews), who would have understood the many Old Testament references.

# General Information:

This prologue lays the background for the whole book: the unsurpassing greatness of the Son — the Son is greater than all. The book begins with emphasizing that the Son is better than the prophets and the angels.

# in these last days

"in these final days." This phrase refers to the time when Jesus began his ministry, extending until God establishes his complete rule in his creation.

# through a Son

"Son" is an important title for Jesus, the Son of God. (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/guidelines-sonofgodprinciples]])

# to be the heir of all things

The author speaks of the Son as if he will inherit wealth and property from his Father. AT: "to possess all things" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metaphor]])

# It is through him that God also made the universe

"It is through the Son that God also made all things"

# the brightness of God's glory

"the light of his glory." God's glory is associated with a very bright light. The author is saying that the Son embodies that light and fully represents God's glory.

# glory, the exact representation of his being

"glory, the image of God's being." The "the exact representation of his being" is similar in meaning to "the brightness of God's glory." The Son embodies the character and essence of God and fully represents everything that God is. AT: "glory and is just like God" or "glory, and what is true about God is true about the Son"

# the word of his power

"his powerful word." Here "word" refers to a message or command. AT: "his powerful command" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metonymy]])

# After he had made cleansing for sins

The abstract noun "cleansing" can be expressed as a verb: "making clean." AT: "After he had finished making us clean from sins" or "After he had finished purifying us from our sins" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-abstractnouns]])

# he had made cleansing for sins

The author speaks of forgiving sins as if it were making a person clean. AT: "he had made it possible for God to forgive our sins" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metaphor]])

# he sat down at the right hand of the Majesty on high

Here "right hand" refers to a place of honor. When referring to God's right hand, this idiom means that Christ rules as God, with God’s authority AT: "he returned to the highest point of heaven to rule as king where God is" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metonymy]]) (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-idiom]])

# the Majesty on high

Here "Majesty" refers to God. AT: "God Most High" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metonymy]])

# translationWords

* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/god]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/father]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/prophet]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/sonofgod]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/appoint]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/heir]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/sonofgod]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/glory]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/wordofgod]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/power]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/clean]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/sin]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/righthand]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/majesty]]