# Connecting Statement:

The author continues explaining that Jesus is superior to the angels.

# General Information:

This quotation comes from another Psalm.

# In the beginning

"Before anything existed"

# you laid the earth's foundation

The author speaks of God creating the earth as if he built a building on a foundation. AT: "you created the earth" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metaphor]])

# The heavens are the work of your hands

Here "hands" refer to God's power and action. AT: "You made the heavens" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metonymy]])

# They will perish

"The heavens and earth will disappear" or "The heavens and earth will no longer exist"

# wear out like a piece of clothing

The author speaks of the heavens and earth as if they were a piece of clothing that will get old and eventually become useless. (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-simile]])

# roll them up like a cloak

The author speaks of the heavens and earth as if they were a robe or another kind of outer garment. (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-simile]])

# they will be changed like a piece of clothing

The author speaks of the heavens and earth as if they were clothing that could be exchanged for other clothing. (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-simile]])

# they will be changed

This can be stated in active form. AT: "you will change them" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-activepassive]])

# your years do not end

Periods of time are used to represent God's eternal existence. AT: "your life will never end" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metaphor]])