# General Information:

This quotation comes from another Psalm.

# But to which of the angels has God said at any time ... feet"?

The author uses a question to emphasize that God has never said this to an angel. AT: "But God has never said to an angel at any time ... feet.'" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-rquestion]])

# Sit at my right hand

To sit at the "right hand of God" is a symbolic action of receiving great honor and authority from God. AT: "Sit in the place of honor beside me" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/translate-symaction]])

# until I make your enemies a stool for your feet

Christ's enemies are spoken of as if they will become an object on which a king rests his feet. This image represents defeat and dishonor for his enemies. (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metaphor]])

# Are not all angels spirits ... inherit salvation?

The author uses this question to remind the readers that angels are not as powerful as Christ, but they have a different role. AT: "All angels are spirits who ... inherit salvation." (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-rquestion]])

# for those who will inherit salvation

Receiving what God has promised believers is spoken of as if it were inheriting property and wealth from a family member. AT: "for those whom God will save" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metaphor]])

# translationWords

* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/angel]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/righthand]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/inherit]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/save]]