# Connecting Statement:

Paul calls the elders of the church of Ephesus and begins to speak to them.

# General Information:

Here the word "he" refers to Paul.

# General Information:

The word "our" refers to Paul and the elders to whom he is speaking. (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-inclusive]])

# Miletus

Miletus was a port city in western Asia Minor near the mouth of the Meander River. See how you translated this in [Acts 20:15](./15.md). (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/translate-names]])

# You yourselves

Here "yourselves" is used for emphasis. (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-rpronouns]])

# I set foot in Asia

Here "foot" stands for the entire person. AT: "I entered Asia" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-synecdoche]])

# how I always spent my time with you

This speaks about time as if it were something that a person could spend. AT: "how I always conducted myself when I was with you" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metaphor]])

# lowliness of mind

This speaks about something humble as if it were low to the ground. The word "mind" stands for a person's inner attitude. AT: "humility" or "humbleness" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metaphor]] and [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metonymy]])

# with tears

Here "tears" stands for feeling sad and crying. AT: "I crying as I served the Lord" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metonymy]])

# of the Jews

This does not mean every Jew. This lets us know who plotted. AT: "of some of the Jews" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-synecdoche]])

# You know how I did not keep back from declaring to you

"You know how I was never silent, but I always declared to you"

# from house to house

Paul taught people in various private homes. The words "I taught" are understood. AT: "I also taught when I was in your homes" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-ellipsis]])

# about repentance toward God and of faith in our Lord Jesus

The abstract nouns "repentance" and "faith" can be stated as verbs. AT: "that they need to repent before God and believe in our Lord Jesus Christ" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-abstractnouns]])