# General Information:

Here the word "I" refers to Paul.

# compelled by the Spirit

They can be stated in active form. AT: "because the Spirit compels me to go there" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-activepassive]])

# not knowing what will happen to me there

"and I do not know what will happen to me there"

# chains and sufferings await me

Here "chains" refers to Paul's being arrested and put in prison. AT: "people will put me in prison and cause me to suffer" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metonymy]])

# if only I may finish the race and complete the ministry that I received from the Lord Jesus

This speaks about Paul's "race" and "ministry" as if they are objects that Jesus gives and Paul receives. Here "race" and "ministry" mean basically the same thing. Paul repeats this for emphasis. AT: "so that I may complete the work that the Lord Jesus has commanded me to do" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metaphor]] and [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-doublet]])

# finish the race

Paul speaks about completing the work that Jesus has commanded him to do as if he were running a race. (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metaphor]])

# to testify to the gospel of the grace of God

"to tell people the good news about God's grace." This is the ministry that Paul received from Jesus.

# translationWords

* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/bond]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/holyspirit]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/jerusalem]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/suffer]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/life]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/precious]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/minister]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/lordgod]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/goodnews]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/grace]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/god]]