# Therefore

This word marks a statement that is said because of what was said previously. In this case, it refers back to all that Paul has said so far in his speech about his leaving them.

# the flock of which the Holy Spirit has made you overseers. Be careful to shepherd the church of God

Believers are likened to a "flock" of sheep here. Church leaders are entrusted by God with the care of the community of believers just as a shepherd would care for his flock of sheep and protect them from wolves. AT: "the group of believers the Holy spirit has entrusted to you. Be sure to take care of the church of God" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metaphor]])

# the church of God, which he purchased with his own blood

The shedding of the "blood" of Christ here is likened to a payment to God for our sins. AT: "the people Christ saved from their sins by shedding his blood on the cross" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metaphor]])

# his own blood

Here "blood" stands for Christ's death. (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metonymy]])

# vicious wolves will come in among you and will not spare the flock

This is a picture of people who teach false doctrine and who harm the community of believers as though they were wolves that eat the sheep of the flock. AT: "many enemies will come among you and try to harm the community of believers" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metaphor]])

# in order to draw away the disciples after them

A false teacher convincing believers to start believing his false teaching is spoken of as if he were leading sheep away from the flock to follow him. AT: "in order to convince people who are disciples of Christ to become his disciples instead" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metaphor]])