# be on guard. Remember

"be on guard and remember" or "be on guard as you remember"

# be on guard

"be awake and alert" or "watch out." Christian leaders being alert about anyone that may harm the community of believers is spoken of as if they were guards in an army watching out for the enemy army. (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metaphor]])

# Remember

"Continue to remember" or "Do not forget"

# for three years I did not stop instructing ... night and day

Paul did not teach them continuously for three years, but over the space of three years. (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-hyperbole]])

# I did not stop instructing

"I did not stop warning"

# with tears

Here "tears" refers to Paul's crying because of the strong emotion of concern he felt while he was warning the people. (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metonymy]])

# I entrust you to God and to the word of his grace

Here "word" stands for a message. AT: "I ask God to take care of you and that he will help you to keep believing the message I spoke to you about his grace" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metonymy]])

# entrust

to give someone else the responsibility of taking care of someone or something

# which is able to build you up

A person's faith becoming stronger is spoken of as if the person were a wall and someone were building him higher and stronger. AT: "which is able to make become stronger and stronger in your faith" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metaphor]])

# to give you the inheritance

This speaks about the "word of his grace" as if it were God himself that would give the inheritance to believers. AT: "God will give you the inheritance" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-personification]])

# the inheritance

The blessings that God gives believers is spoken of as if they were money or property that a child inherits from his father. (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metaphor]])