# General Information:

Parallelism is common in Hebrew poetry. (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/writing-poetry]] and [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-parallelism]])

# General Information:

This psalm is a song about God's faithfulness.

# For the chief musician

"This is for the director of music to use in worship"

# Jeduthun

One of David's chief musicians had this same name. This may refer to him. See how you translated this in [Psalms 39:1](../039/001.md). (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/translate-names]])

# A psalm of David

Possible meanings are 1) David wrote the psalm or 2) the psalm is about David or 3) the psalm is in the style of David's psalms.

# my salvation comes from him

"he is the one who rescues me" or "he is the one who saves me"

# He alone is my rock and my salvation

The writer speaks of God's ability to protect him as if God were a rock. AT: "He is the only one who can protect and rescue me" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metaphor]])

# he is my high tower

The writer speaks of God's ability to protect him as if God were a high tower. AT: "he keeps me away from the grasp of my enemies" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metaphor]])

# I will not be greatly moved

This can be stated in active form. AT: "nothing can ever move me" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-activepassive]])

# translationWords

* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/psalm]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/names/david]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/god]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/save]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/watchtower]]