# General Information:

Yahweh is speaking to Hosea.

# like the sand of the seashore

This emphasizes the great number of Israelites. (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-simile]])

# which cannot be measured or counted

This can be stated in active form. AT: "which no one can measure or count" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-activepassive]])

# It will be that where it was said to them

This can be stated in active form. AT: "Where God said to them" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-activepassive]])

# where it was said to them

This expression probably refers to Jezreel, the city where crimes had been committed by kings of Israel, and which was a symbol of God's punishment of them.

# it will be said to them

This can be stated in active form. AT: "God will say to them" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-activepassive]])

# will be gathered together

This can be stated in active form. AT: "God will gather them together" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-activepassive]])

# go up from the land

This expression might refer to the land where the people of Israel were in captivity.

# the day of Jezreel

This refers to the time when God will put his people back in the land of Israel. The full meaning of this statement can be made explicit. (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-explicit]])

# translationWords

* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/peopleofgod]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/israel]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/life]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/god]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/names/judah]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/appoint]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/names/jezreel]]