# General Information:

The people of Israel question Ezekiel, and Ezekiel tells them what Yahweh has said to them.

# The word of Yahweh came

This is an idiom that is used to introduce something that God told his prophets or his people. See how you translated this in [Ezekiel 3:16](../03/16.md). AT: "Yahweh spoke this message" or "Yahweh spoke these words" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-idiom]])

# the house of Israel

The word "house" is a metonym for the family that lives in the house, in this case the Israelites, the descendants of Jacob over many years. See how you translated this in [Ezekiel 3:1](../03/01.md). AT: "the Israelites" or "the Israelite people group" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metonymy]])

# Behold

The word "behold" here alerts us to pay attention to the surprising information that follows.

# I will desecrate my sanctuary—the pride of ... of your soul, and your sons

"I will desecrate my sanctuary which is the pride ... of your soul. Your sons"

# the pride of your power

This describes the temple as the building that the people are proud of. This speaks of it as being their "pride" instead of the source of their pride. AT: "the building that you are proud of" or "the source of your strong pride" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metonymy]])

# the delight of your eyes

Here Yahweh refers to the people by their "eyes." AT: "the building that you delight to look at" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-synecdoche]])

# the yearning of your soul

Here Yahweh refers to the people by their "soul" to emphasize their inner feelings. AT: "the building that you truly love" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-synecdoche]])

# your sons and your daughters ... will fall by the sword

This refers to their enemies by their swords. AT: "your sons and daughters ... will be killed in war" or "your enemies will kill your sons and your daughters ... with their swords" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metonymy]])

# translationWords

* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/house]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/israel]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/lordyahweh]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/proud]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/lust]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/desecrate]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/sanctuary]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/sword]]