# that I capture their temple

Here Yahweh speaks of destroying the temple as if it were someone that he was capturing. AT: "that I destroy their temple"

# which is their joy, their pride

The abstract nouns "joy" and "pride" can be translated as noun phrases. AT: "which is what they are joyful about and what they are proud of" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metaphor]])

# refugee

someone who has been forced to leave their country because of war or another disaster

# your mouth will be opened up

This can be stated in active form. Ezekiel being given understanding and the ability to speak is represented by his mouth being opened. AT: "I will open your mouth" or "you will know what to say" or "I will cause you to know what to say" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-activepassive]] and [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-synecdoche]])

# you will speak—you will no longer be silent

Both of these phrases mean that Ezekiel will speak. In the second phrase it is stated in negative form to emphasize that he will speak. (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-litotes]])

# You will be a sign for them

Here the word "sign" refers to something that communicates a special warning to those who see it. Yahweh speaks of Ezekiel and his actions as being this warning. See how you translated this metaphor in [Ezekiel 12:6](../12/04.md). AT: "You will be a warning for them" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metaphor]])

# know that I am Yahweh

When Yahweh says that people will know that he is Yahweh, he is implying that they will know that he is the one true God who has supreme authority and power. See how you translated this in [Ezekiel 6:7](../06/06.md). AT: "understand that I am Yahweh, the one true God" or "realize that I, Yahweh, have supreme power and authority" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-explicit]])

# translationWords

* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/joy]]