# General Information:

Isaiah continues to tell what God has judged against the nations in 13:1-23:18.

# A declaration about Tyre

"This is what Yahweh declares about Tyre"

# Howl, you ships of Tarshish

Here "ships" represents the men on the ships. Isaiah speaks to the men on the ships of Tarshish as if they could hear him. AT: "Cry out in despair you men on the ships of Tarshish" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metonymy]] and [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-apostrophe]])

# harbor

an area of the sea that is near land and safe for ships

# from the land of Cyprus it has been revealed to them

This phrase can be stated in active form. AT: "the men heard about Tyre when they were in the land of Cyprus" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/translate-names]] and [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-activepassive]])

# Be silent, you inhabitants of the coast

Isaiah speaks to the people who live on the coast as if they could hear him. (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-apostrophe]])

# Be silent

This is an idiom. Here silence is meant to signal shock and amazement. AT: "Be shocked" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-idiom]])

# of the coast

The "coast" is the land near or around the sea or ocean. Here it refers to the people who live in Phoenicia which borders the Mediterranean sea.

# the merchant of Sidon, who travels over the sea, has filled you

Here "merchant" means "many merchants." AT: "the merchants of Sidon, who travel over the sea, have made you rich" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-genericnoun]])

# Upon the great waters was the grain of Shihor

Shihor was the name of a valley near the Nile River in Egypt known for its production of grain. AT: "The men traveled on the large sea to transport the grain from Shihor in Egypt" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/translate-names]])

# the harvest of the Nile was her produce

The "harvest of the Nile" refers to the grain that was harvested near the Nile River and transported on the river and then to Phoenicia. (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-possession]])

# her produce

"its produce." It was common to refer to the river as "her."

# it became the commerce of the nations

Commerce is the activity of buying and selling goods. Here "nations" represents the people. AT: "you were where people from other nations came to buy and sell goods" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metonymy]])