# General Information:

These verses finish the message of Wisdom.

# The fear of Yahweh

See how you translated this phrase in [Proverbs 1:7](../01/07.md).

# through me your days will be multiplied

This may be put into active form. AT: "I will multiply your days" or "I will cause you to live many more days" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-activepassive]])

# through me

Wisdom, personified as a woman, continues to speak here. (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-personification]])

# your days will be multiplied, and years of life will be added to you

These two phrases basically mean the same thing and are used to emphasize the great benefits wisdom has. (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-parallelism]])

# years of life will be added to you

Wisdom speaks of years of life as if they were physical objects. This can be stated in active form. AT: "I will add years of life to you" or "I will add years to your life" or "I will enable you to live longer" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metaphor]] and [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-activepassive]])

# If you are wise ... and if you mock

These two statements seem to mean that wise people gain advantages for themselves because of their wisdom, and mockers suffer because of their behavior.

# you will carry it

This speaks of the consequence of one's bad behavior as if it were a heavy load that one had to carry on his back. (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metaphor]])

# translationWords

* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/fear]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/yahweh]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/wise]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/know]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/holyone]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/life]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/mock]]