## translationWords

* [[en:tw:condemn]]
* [[en:tw:god]]
* [[en:tw:judge]]
* [[en:tw:true]]

## translationNotes

* Paul begins an argument with an imaginary Jewish person.
* **Therefore you are without excuse** - The word "therefore" marks a new section of the letter. It also makes a concluding statement based on what was said in [[:en:bible:notes:rom:01:32]]. AT: "Since God will punish those who continually sin, he will certainly not excuse your sins"
* **you are** - Paul is not talking to a real person. He is acting like a Jewish person who is arguing with him. Paul is doing this to teach his audience that God will punish everyone who continually sins, whether Jew or Gentile. (See: [[en:ta:vol2:translate:figs_apostrophe]])
* **you** - Here the word "you" is singular. (See: [[:en:ta:vol1:translate:figs_yousingular]])
* **you person, you who judge** - Here the word "person" is used to scold or mock someone who thinks he can act like God and judge others. This could be translated as a new sentence. AT: "You are just a human being, yet you judge others and say they deserve God's punishment"
* **for what you judge in another you condemn in yourself** - This could be translated as a new sentence. AT: "But you are only judging yourself because you do the same wicked deeds as they do"
* **But we know** - This may include Christian believers and also Jews who are not Christians. (See: [[en:ta:vol2:translate:figs_inclusive]])
* **God's judgment is according to truth when it falls on those** - AT: "God will judge those people truly and fairly" (See: [[en:ta:vol2:translate:figs_personification]])
* **those who practice such things** - AT: "the people who do those wicked deeds"
