# But consider this

"So consider this" or "Therefore, consider this"

# consider this

"think about what I am going to tell you"

# person

Use the general word for a human being "whoever you are"

# you who judge those who practice such things although you do the same things

"you who say someone deserves God's punishment while you do the same wicked deeds"

# Will you escape from the judgment of God?

This remark appears in the form of a question to add emphasis. You can also translate this question as a strong negative statement. AT: "You will certainly not escape God's judgment!" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-rquestion]])

# Or do you think so little of the riches of his goodness, his delayed punishment, and his patience ... repentance?

This remark appears in the form of a question to add emphasis. You can also translate this as a strong statement. AT: "You should not act like it does not matter that God is good and that he patiently waits a long time before he punishes people, so that his goodness will cause them to repent!" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-rquestion]])

# think so little of the riches ... patience

"consider the riches ... patience unimportant" or "consider ... not good"

# Do you not know that his goodness is meant to lead you to repentance?

This remark appears in the form of a question to add emphasis. You can also translate this as a strong statement. AT: "You must know that God shows you he is good so that you might repent!" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-rquestion]])

# translationWords

* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/judge]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/good]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/punish]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/repent]]