# Connecting Statement:

Paul continues to remind the people that all people are wicked.

# But it is to the extent of your hardness and unrepentant heart

Paul uses a metaphor to compare a person who refuses to obey God to something hard, like a stone. He also uses the metonym "heart" to represent the whole person. AT: "It is because you refuse to listen and repent" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metaphor]] and [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metonymy]])

# hardness and unrepentant heart

This is a doublet that you can combine as "unrepentant heart." (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-doublet]])

# you are storing up for yourself wrath

The phrase "storing up" implies a metaphor that usually refers to a person gathering his treasures and putting them in a safe place. Paul says, instead of treasures, that the person is gathering God's punishment. The longer they go without repenting, the more severe the punishment. AT: "you are making your punishment worse" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metaphor]])

# on the day of wrath ... the day of the revelation of God's righteous judgment

Both of these phrases refer to the same day. AT: "when God shows everyone that he is angry and that he judges all people fairly" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-doublet]])

# pay back

"give a fair reward or punishment"

# to every person the same measure of his actions

"according to what each person has done"

# have sought

This means that they act in a way that will lead to a positive decision from God on judgment day.

# praise, honor, and incorruptibility

They want God to praise and honor them, and they want to never die.

# incorruptibility

This refers to physical, not moral, decay.

# translationWords

* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/hard]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/repent]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/wrath]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/reveal]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/righteous]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/judge]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/good]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/praise]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/honor]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/eternity]]