## translationWords

* [[en:tw:confidence]]
* [[en:tw:darkness]]
* [[en:tw:foolish]]
* [[en:tw:jew]]
* [[en:tw:lawofmoses]]
* [[en:tw:light]]
* [[en:tw:rejoice]]
* [[en:tw:teacher]]
* [[en:tw:test]]
* [[en:tw:true]]
* [[en:tw:willofgod]]

## translationNotes

* Paul continues his imaginary argument with a Jewish person.
* **If you call yourself a Jew** - This begins a new section of the letter. Here the word "if" does not mean Paul doubts or is unsure. He is emphasizing that these statement are true. Alternate translation: "Now you think of yourself as member of the Jewish people"
* **rest upon the Law, rejoice proudly in God** - "and you rely on the Law of Moses and rejoice proudly because of God."
* **know his will** - This could be translated as a new sentence: "And you know God's will"
* **having been instructed by the Law** - This could be translated with an active verb: "because you understand what the Law of Moses teaches."
* **if you are confident…and of the truth** - If your language has a way to mark that 2:19-20 interrupts Paul's main argument of [[:en:bible:notes:rom:02:17]], and [[:en:bible:notes:rom:02:21]], use it here. You might have to place 2:19-20 before 2:17.
* **if you are confident** - "You are sure"
* **that you yourself are a guide of the blind, a light to those who are in darkness** - Both of these phrases mean basically the same thing. Paul compares a Jewish person teaching someone about the Law to helping a person that cannot see. Alternate translation: "that you yourself are like a guide to someone who is blind, and you are like a light to someone lost in the dark." (See: [[en:ta:vol2:translate:figs_doublet]], [[en:ta:vol1:translate:figs_metaphor]])
* **a corrector of the foolish** - This could be translated as a new sentence: "You correct those who do wrong."
* **a teacher of babies** - Here Paul compares those who do not know anything about the Law to babies. Alternate translation: "and you teach those who do not know the Law."
* **and that you have in the Law the form of knowledge and of the truth** - "because you are sure you understand the truth written in the Law"
