# General Information:

Yahweh speaks of the tribe of Levi as though they are Levi. (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metonymy]])

# My covenant with him was life and peace

Here the intended results of the covenant are spoken of as if they were the covenant itself. AT: "The purpose of my covenant with Levi was for the priests to live in prosperity and peace" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metaphor]])

# fear, and he feared me

This expression continues the same metaphor, but leaves out an idea that is implied in the text. This can begin a new sentence. AT: "My covenant with him was also fear, and he feared me" or "In my covenant with him, I required him to fear me, and he did fear me" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-ellipsis]])

# in awe of my name

Here "my name" stands for God himself. (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metonymy]])

# nothing false was found

Here finding something stands for that thing existing. AT: "there was no falsehood" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metonymy]])

# on his lips

Here "lips" stands for a person's ability to speak. (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metonymy]])

# He walked with me

Here walking stands for living, conducting one's life in a certain way. (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metaphor]])

# in peace and uprightness

Here the idea of location stands for the manner in which Levi lived. AT: "peacefully and uprightly" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metaphor]])

# he turned many away from sin

Here persuading people to stop sinning is spoken of as if it were turning them away from sin. AT: "he persuaded many people to stop sinning" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metaphor]])

# For a priest's lips should keep knowledge

Here knowledge is spoken of as if it were an object that a priest could keep. In this passage, the idea of "keep knowledge" implies communicating true knowledge about God. (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metaphor]])

# lips

Here "lips" stands for a person's ability to speak. (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metaphor]])

# seek instruction

Here instruction is spoken of as if it were an object that people could look for. This can be restated to remove the abstract noun "instruction." AT: "want to be instructed" or "want a priest to teach them truly" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-abstractnouns]])

# from his mouth

Here "mouth" stands for what a person says. (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metonymy]])

# translationWords

* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/covenant]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/life]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/peace]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/honor]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/awe]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/true]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/unrighteous]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/know]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/messenger]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/yahwehofhosts]]