# General Information:

Here the prophet Malachi begins to speak to his fellow Israelites.

# Is there not one father for us all? Has not one God created us?

Malachi asks these questions in order to remind his fellow Israelites about what they already know. AT: "You know that we all have one father, that our God has created a nation out of us." or "You all know that God is the father of all us Israelites, because he is the one who made our nation." (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/writing-background]] and [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-rquestion]])

# Has not one God created us?

This question is meant to express a statement. AT: "Certainly it is the same God who has created us." (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-rquestion]])

# created us

This probably refers to God forming the Hebrews into a nation.

# Why are we faithless each man against his brother, profaning the covenant of our fathers?

Malachi asks this question in order to rebuke his fellow Israelites. This question may be expressed as a statement. AT: "We should certainly not mistreat our brothers and disrespect God's covenant by disobeying his commands, as you have been doing." (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-rquestion]])

# Judah has been faithless

Here "Judah" stands for the people in the region of Judah, and the fact that they have been faithless to Yahweh is spoken of as if they were one man named "Judah." AT: "The people of Judah have been faithless" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metonymy]])

# A disgusting thing has been committed in Israel and in Jerusalem

This can be expressed in active form. AT: "People have done disgusting things in Israel and in Jerusalem" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-activepassive]])

# For Judah has profaned the holy place of Yahweh

Here "Judah" refers again to the people of Israel. AT: "For the people of Judah have profaned the holy place of Yahweh" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metonymy]])

# has married the daughter of a foreign god

The people of Judah are again referred to as if they were one man named "Judah." AT: "have married women from other nations, women who worship idols" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metonymy]])

# May Yahweh cut off from the tents of Jacob the man who

Destroying something is often spoken of as it were cutting it off from something else. AT: "May Yahweh destroy anyone in the tents of Jacob who" or "May Yahweh kill anyone in the community of Israel who" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metaphor]])

# the tents of Jacob

Here "tents of Jacob" stands for the community of Israel. (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metaphor]])

# Jacob

Here "Jacob" stands for all the Israelites, because Jacob was one of the patriarchs from whom the Israelites were descended. (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metonymy]])

# the one who is awake and the one who answers

This expression seems to mean "absolutely everyone." (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-idiom]])

# translationWords

* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/father]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/god]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/profane]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/names/judah]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/israel]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/names/jerusalem]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/holyplace]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/yahweh]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/names/jacob]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/sacrifice]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/yahwehofhosts]]