# Why does he not?

The full thought is "Why does he not turn toward the offering or accept it with favor from our hand?" (See: [Malachi 2:13](./13.md)) Some translators may decide to provide this entire thought in their versions. (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-ellipsis]])

# the wife of your youth

"the woman you married when you were young"

# Yahweh was a witness between you and the wife of your youth

This statement assumes that this woman is still living. (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/writing-background]])

# a witness between you and the wife of your youth

Here a witness to an agreement between two people is thought of as standing between them in order to testify about what they agreed to, in case a dispute arises between the two people. This sentence also was meant to remind the people that Yahweh would punish any Israelite who broke the covenant of marriage. (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metaphor]] and [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/writing-background]])

# Did he not make them one, with a portion of his spirit?

This question may be expressed as a statement. AT: "He certainly made husband and wife one, with a portion of his spirit." (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-rquestion]])

# make them one

This expression implies making husband and wife one flesh. AT: "make husband and wife one flesh" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/writing-background]])

# an offspring from God

Children who would honor and obey God.

# she was your companion and your wife by covenant

This statement implies that many of the Israelites had divorced their wives. (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/writing-background]])

# by covenant

"by the covenant of marriage that you agreed to"

# I hate divorce

Here "divorce" stands for the act of divorce, when a man sends away his wife, so as to end his marriage to her. AT: "I hate it when a man divorces his wife" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-abstractnouns]])

# the one who covers his garment with violence

This phrase probably means any man who is violent toward his wife. (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-idiom]])

# So guard yourselves in your spirit and do not be faithless

"So be careful to be loyal to your wife"

# translationWords

* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/yahweh]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/testimony]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/covenant]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/spirit]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/offspring]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/divorce]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/yahwehofhosts]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/offspring]]