# seek you

Seeking God represents either 1) asking God for help or 2) thinking about God and obeying him. AT: "ask you for help" or "think about you and obey you" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metaphor]])

# rejoice and be glad

These two phrases mean basically the same thing and emphasize the intensity of gladness. AT: "rejoice greatly" or "be very glad" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-doublet]])

# love your salvation

The abstract noun "salvation" can be stated as an action. AT: "love you because you saved them" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-abstractnouns]])

# always say

This exaggeration emphasizes that it is important to praise God often. (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-hyperbole]])

# May God be praised

This can be stated in active form. AT: "Let everyone praise God" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-activepassive]])

# poor and needy

Here the words "poor" and "needy" mean basically the same thing and emphasize that he is unable to help himself. AT: "very needy" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-doublet]])

# hurry to me

The writer speaks of God as if he is running to the writer in order to help him. AT: "come quickly to help me!" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metaphor]])

# you are my help and you rescue me

Here the phrase "you rescue me" explains how God is his "help." AT: "you help me by rescuing me" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-parallelism]])

# do not delay

This can be stated in active form. AT: "please come quickly" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-litotes]])

# translationWords

* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/joy]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/love]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/salvation]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/praise]]