# General Information:

This is the beginning of the Son of Man's message to the angel of the church in Sardis.

# Sardis

This is the name of a city in the western part of Asia that today is modern Turkey. See how you translated this in [Revelation 1:11](../01/09.md). (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/translate-names]])

# the seven spirits

The number seven is a symbol of completeness and perfection. The "seven spirits" refers either to the Spirit of God or to seven spirits who serve God. See how you translated this in [Revelation 1:4](../01/04.md). (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/writing-symlanguage]])

# the seven stars

These stars are symbols that represent the seven angels of the seven churches. See how you translated this in [Revelation 1:16](../01/14.md). (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/writing-symlanguage]])

# alive ... dead

Obeying and honoring God is spoken of as being alive; disobeying and dishonoring him is spoken of as being dead. (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metaphor]])

# Wake up and strengthen what remains, but is about to die

The good deeds done by the believers in Sardis are spoken of as if they were alive but in danger of dying. AT: "Wake up and complete the work that remains, or what you have done will become worthless" or "Wake up. If you do not finish what you have started to do, your previous work will have been useless" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metaphor]])

# Wake up

Being alert to danger is spoken of as waking up. AT: "Be alert" or "Be careful" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metaphor]])

# translationWords

* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/angel]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/church]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/god]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/life]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/death]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/works]]