# synagogue of Satan

People who gather to obey or honor Satan are spoken of as if they were in a synagogue, a place of worship and teaching for the Jews. See how you translated this in [Revelation 2:9](../02/08.md). (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metaphor]])

# bow down

This is a sign of submission, not worship. AT: "bow down in submission" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/translate-symaction]])

# before your feet

Here the word "feet" represent the person before whom these people bow down. AT: "before you" or "to you" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-synecdoche]])

# they will come to know

"they will learn" or "they will admit"

# will also keep you from the hour of testing

"will also prevent the hour of testing from happening to you" or "will protect you so you do not enter the hour of testing"

# hour of testing

"time of testing." This probably means "the time when people try to make you disobey me."

# is coming

Existing in the future is spoken of as coming. (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metaphor]])

# I am coming soon

It is understood that he is coming in order to judge. AT: "I am coming to judge soon" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-explicit]])

# Hold tight to what you have

Continuing to believe firmly in Christ is spoken of as if it were holding something tightly. AT: "Continue to believe firmly" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metaphor]])

# crown

A crown was a wreath, originally of olive branches or laurel leaves, that was put on the head of a victorious athlete. Here "crown" stands for a reward. See how you translated "crown" in [Revelation 2:10](../02/10.md). (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metaphor]])