# General Information:

This is the beginning of the Son of Man's message to the angel of the church in Laodicea.

# Laodicea

This is the name of a city in the western part of Asia that today is modern Turkey. See how you translated this in [Revelation 1:11](../01/09.md). (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/translate-names]])

# The words of the Amen

Here "the Amen" is a name for Jesus Christ. He guarantees God's promises by saying amen to them.

# the ruler over God's creation

Possible meanings are 1) "the one who rules over everything that God created" or 2) "the one through whom God created everything."

# you are neither cold nor hot

The writer speaks of the Laodiceans as if they were water. Possible meanings are 1) "cold" and hot" represent two extremes of spiritual interest or love for God, where "cold" is to be completely against God, and to be "hot" is to be zealous to serve him, or 2) "cold" and "hot" both refer to water that is useful for drinking or for cooking or healing, respectively. AT: "you are like water that is neither cold nor hot" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metaphor]])

# you are lukewarm

"you are slightly warm." The writer speaks of the Laodiceans as if they were water that is not cool enough to refresh those who drink it, but not warm enough to cook with or to heal those who bathe in it. Possible meanings are 1) this describes people who have only a small amount of spiritual interest or conviction or 2) this describes people for whom God has no use. (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metaphor]])

# I am about to vomit you out of my mouth

Rejecting them is spoken of as vomiting them out of the mouth. AT: "I will reject you as I would spit out lukewarm water" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metaphor]])

# translationWords

* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/angel]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/church]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/true]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/testimony]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/ruler]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/god]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/creation]]