# I have abandoned my house; I have forsaken my inheritance. I have given my beloved into the hands of her enemies.

These three sentences have similar meanings. The first and second one strengthens the thought in the third. (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-parallelism]])

# I have abandoned my house; I have forsaken my inheritance

The two phrases are metaphors in which Yahweh speaks of his people as if they were his "house" and his "inheritance." AT: "I have abandoned my Israelite people, the people whom I chose to belong to me" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metaphor]])

# into the hands of her enemies

Here the word "hands" represents control. AT: "to be conquered by her enemies" or "over to the control of her enemies" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metonymy]])

# of her ... she sets herself ... with her ... hate her

Here Yahweh refers to his people as a female by using feminine pronouns. AT: "of their ... they set themselves ... with their ... hate them" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-personification]])

# she sets herself against me with her own voice

This continues to speaks of Yahweh's people as a lion. This speaks of the people showing they are against him as if they were roaring at him. AT: "it is like she roars at me to defy me"

# Has not my prized possession become a speckled bird, that other birds of prey go against her all around?

Yahweh uses this rhetorical question to emphasize that his people are surrounded by their enemies. This question can be written as a statement. AT: "My prized possession has become a speckled bird and other birds of prey go against her all around." (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-rquestion]])

# Has not my prized possession

Here Yahweh speaks of his people as his "prized possession." AT: "Have not my people, who are my prized possession" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-explicit]])

# become a speckled bird, that other birds of prey go against her all around

Here Yahweh speaks of his people being in danger and surrounded by their enemies as if they were a speckled bird surrounded by birds of prey. AT: "become like a speckled bird, and her enemies are like birds of prey attacking her on all sides" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metaphor]])

# a speckled bird

"a strange looking bird." This refers to a bird that was often picked on and eaten by other birds.

# birds of prey

birds that attack and eat animals

# Go and gather all the wild beasts and bring them to devour her

Yahweh speaks here in the form of a command to strengthen what he says. This command is not directed to a specific person and may be written as a statement. AT: "Let all the wild beasts in the fields come and eat her" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-apostrophe]])

# translationWords

* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/house]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/forsaken]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/inherit]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/beloved]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/peopleofgod]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/hand]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/lion]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/voice]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/possess]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/prey]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/creature]]