# General Information:

God's word about Judah's neighbors.

# It will come about that

"It will happen that"

# As Yahweh lives

"As surely as Yahweh is alive." The people use this expression to show that what they say next is certainly true. This is a way of making a solemn promise. Swearing in Yahweh's name instead of in Baal's name indicates that they worship Yahweh instead of Baal. See how you translated this in [Jeremiah 4:2](../04/01.md). AT: "I solemnly swear" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-idiom]])

# they will be built up in the midst of my people

This speaks of the people becoming prosperous as if they were a building that was being built. This can be stated in active form. AT: "I will build them up in the midst of my people" or "I will make them wealthy and they will live among my people" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metaphor]] and [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-activepassive]])

# midst

middle

# I will uproot that nation. It will certainly be uprooted and destroyed

God speaks of forcing the people to leave their land and destroying their nation as if they were plants that he was pulling out of the ground. These two sentences have the same meaning and may be combined. AT: "I will certainly and completely exile and destroy that nation" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metaphor]] and [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-parallelism]])

# It will certainly be uprooted and destroyed

This can be stated in active form. AT: "I will certainly uproot and destroy it" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-activepassive]])

# this is Yahweh's declaration

Yahweh speaks of himself by name to express the certainty of what he is declaring. See how you translated this in [Jeremiah 1:8](../01/07.md). AT: "this is what Yahweh has declared" or "this is what I, Yahweh, have declared" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-123person]])

# translationWords

* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/oath]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/name]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/baal]]