# General Information:

Various poetic forms are used throughout this book. (See [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/writing-poetry]] and [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-parallelism]] and [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metaphor]])

# is now sitting all alone

This speaks of the city of Jerusalem being empty, as if it were a woman who was sitting alone. AT: "is now empty" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metaphor]])

# She

The writer of Lamentations writes about the city of Jerusalem as if it were a woman. (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-personification]])

# like a widow

This speaks of Jerusalem as being without protection, as if it were a vulnerable widow. (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-simile]])

# She was a princess among the nations

This speaks of Jerusalem being honored as if it were a princess. AT: "She was like a princess among the nations" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metaphor]])

# forced into slavery

"forced to become a slave." This can be stated in active form. AT: "but she is now a slave" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-activepassive]])

# She weeps and wails ... and her tears cover her cheeks

The author describes Jerusalem as having emotions like a human being. The city also stands for her inhabitants. AT: "Those who live in her weep and wail ... and their tears cover their cheeks" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-personification]] and [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metonymy]])

# weeps and wails

The word "wails" refers to the sounds that a person makes when they "weep" loudly. AT: "weeps loudly" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-doublet]])

# None of her lovers comfort her. All her friends have betrayed her

This speaks of the people groups that had been faithful to Jerusalem betraying Jerusalem, as if the people groups were Jerusalem's lovers and friends. (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metaphor]])

# translationWords

* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/peoplegroup]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/nation]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/prince]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/servant]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/lover]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/comfort]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/betray]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/adversary]]