# General Information:

The city of Jerusalem is spoken of as if it were a woman. In Lamentations, Zion and Jerusalem are names used to refer to the same city. (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-personification]])

# Jerusalem sinned greatly, therefore, she has become scorned as something that is filthy

This speaks of Jerusalem being scorned in the same way that a woman is scorned when she is unclean. According to the Law of Moses, a woman was considered unclean during her monthly bleeding. AT: "Jerusalem's sins have made her filthy and unclean, and therefore she was unacceptable before God" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-simile]])

# Jerusalem sinned greatly

This describes Jerusalem as a woman who sinned, while it also stands for the inhabitants of Jerusalem. AT: "The people of Jerusalem sinned greatly" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-personification]] and [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metonymy]])

# has become scorned

This can be stated in active form. AT: "has become an object of scorn" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-activepassive]])

# her nakedness

"her naked." Jerusalem is described as a woman whose private parts have been exposed to everyone to shame her. (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-personification]])

# She has become unclean beneath her skirts

According to the Law of Moses, a woman was considered unclean during her monthly bleeding. This speaks of Jerusalem being unclean, as if it were a menstruating woman. AT: "Jerusalem has become unclean, as when a woman is unclean beneath her skirts" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metaphor]])

# unclean

A person who God considers to be spiritually unacceptable or defiled is spoken of as if the person were physically unclean. (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metaphor]])

# Her fall was terrible

The phrase "her fall" is an idiom. AT: "Her downfall was astonishing" or "Those who saw her destruction were surprised" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-idiom]])

# Look at my affliction, Yahweh

Possible meanings are that 1) the author of Lamentations now talks directly to Yahweh or 2) Jerusalem is described as talking to Yahweh like a person. (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-personification]])

# Look at

"Pay attention to"

# the enemy has become too great

This means that they enemy army has become too large and powerful and has defeated Jerusalem. AT: "the enemy army has defeated me" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-explicit]])

# translationWords

* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/names/jerusalem]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/sin]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/honor]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/clean]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/comfort]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/afflict]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/yahweh]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/adversary]]