# her people

The word "her" refers to Jerusalem which is described as if it were a woman. AT: "her inhabitants" or "the people of the city" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-personification]])

# bread

This refers to food in general. AT: "food" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-synecdoche]])

# They have given their precious treasures for food

This means they traded their wealth and their valuables in exchange for food. AT: "They have traded their precious treasures in exchange for food" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-explicit]])

# precious treasures

This refers to their valuable possessions.

# to restore their lives

"to save their lives" or "to restore their strength"

# Look, Yahweh, and consider me

Here Jerusalem speaks directly to Yahweh. (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-personification]])

# Is it nothing to you, all you who pass by?

This rhetorical question is an accusation aganist the people who walk past Jerusalem and do not care about its well-being. This question can be written as a statement. AT: "All you who pass by should care more for my affliction!" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-rquestion]])

# Is it nothing to you

Here Jerusalem continues to speak, but now to people who pass by instead of to Yahweh. (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-personification]])

# Look and see

These words share similar meanings. Together they invite the reader to understand by seeing that no one has suffered so much. (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-doublet]])

# the sorrow that is being inflicted on me

This can be stated in active form. AT: "the sorrow that Yahweh is inflicting upon me" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-activepassive]])

# on the day of his fierce anger

Here the word "day" is used as an idiom. AT: "when he was fiercely angry" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-idiom]])