# General Information:

In this section Jerusalem is portrayed as a woman speaking about herself. (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-personification]])

# on high

This is an idiom. AT: "heaven" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-idiom]])

# he has sent fire into my bones, and it has conquered them

This speaks of Yahweh punishing Jerusalem as if Jerusalem were a person that Yahweh were punishing with fire. AT: "he has sent a painful punishment into my inner being, and it has destroyed me" or "he has sent a destructive punishment into the middle of Jerusalem, and it has destroyed the city" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-personification]] and [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metaphor]])

# has sent fire into my bones

Here "fire" represents pain and "bones" represents one's inner being. AT: "has sent pain into my bones" or "has sent pain into my inner being" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metonymy]])

# He has spread a net for my feet

This speaks of Yahweh punishing Jerusalem as if Jerusalem were a person that Yahweh had set a trap for. This refers to a type of trap usually used to catch an animal. (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-personification]] and [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metaphor]])

# turned me back

This is an idiom. AT: "prevented my from walking any further" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-idiom]])

# The yoke of my transgressions ... They are knit together and placed upon my neck

This speaks of the people of Jerusalem's sins as if they were a yoke bearing a heavy burden that Yahweh had placed on their necks. Also, this can be stated in active form. AT: "My transgressions are like a yoke that he has bound together with his hands and placed upon my neck" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metaphor]] and [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-activepassive]])

# given me over into their hands

"given me over into the hands of my enemies." Here their enemies' control is represented by their "hands." AT: "given my over to the control of my enemies" or "let my enemies defeat me" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metonymy]])

# I am not able to stand

This is an idiom. AT: "I cannot resist them" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-idiom]])

# translationWords

* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/onhigh]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/fire]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/turn]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/desolate]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/yoke]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/transgression]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/bond]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/hand]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/lordgod]]