# General Information:

In this section Jerusalem is portrayed as a woman speaking about herself. In Lamentations, Zion and Jerusalem are names used to refer to the same city. (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-personification]])

# for a comforter is far from me, one who restores my life

This speaks of Jerusalem having no one to comfort her as if she did have a comforter, but that he was far away. The word "comforter" can be expressed as a verb. AT: "for there is no one to comfort me and restore my life" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metaphor]])

# restores my life

"revives me"

# Zion has spread her hands wide

Here Jerusalem no longer speaks about herself; instead the author describes Jerusalem. He speaks of Zion as if it were a woman that lifts up her hands to ask for help. AT: "Zion has reached out for help" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-personification]] and [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/translate-symaction]])

# those around Jacob

"the people around Jacob" or "the nations surrounding Jacob"

# around Jacob should be his adversaries

Here "Jacob" refers to his descendants, that is Israel. AT: "around Jacob's descendants should be their adversaries" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metonymy]])

# unclean

A person who God considers spiritually unacceptable or defiled is spoken of as if the person were physically unclean. (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metaphor]])

# translationWords

* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/comfort]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/restore]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/life]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/children]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/desolate]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/adversary]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/zion]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/yahweh]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/command]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/names/jacob]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/names/jerusalem]]