# General Information:

In this section Jerusalem is portrayed as a woman speaking about herself. (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-personification]])

# They have heard my groaning

"People have heard my groaning." Jerusalem continues to speak as if she were a woman. (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-personification]])

# you have done it

Here the word "you" refers to Yahweh.

# You have brought the day you promised

The phrase "the day" is an idiom that refers to a specific event happening. AT: "You have done what you have promised" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-idiom]])

# now let them become like me

This is a request for Jerusalem's enemies to suffer as the people of Jerusalem have. AT: "now let them suffer like me" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-explicit]])

# Let all their wickedness come before you

This is a request for Yahweh to judge Jerusalem's enemies for their wickedness. The phrase "come before you" is an idiom. AT: "Pay attention to all of the wickedness they have committed" or "Judge them for all of their wickedness" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-idiom]])

# deal with them as you have dealt with me

This is a request for Yahweh to punish Jerusalem's enemies as he punished the people of Jerusalem. AT: "punish them as you have punished me" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-explicit]])

# my heart is faint

Here the "heart" represents the whole person. AT: "I am faint" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-synecdoche]])

# translationWords

* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/comfort]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/adversary]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/rejoice]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/evil]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/torment]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/transgression]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/heart]]