# about Damascus

Damascus is the name of a city. See how you translated this in [Isaiah 7:8](../07/07.md). (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/translate-names]])

# The cities of Aroer will be abandoned

This can be stated in active form. "All the people will abandon the cities of Aroer" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-activepassive]] and [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/translate-names]])

# no one will frighten them

The word "them" refers to the sheep.

# Fortified cities will disappear from Ephraim

Ephraim was the largest tribe in Israel. Here it represents the entire northern kingdom of Israel. AT: "Strong cities will disappear from Israel" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-synecdoche]])

# will disappear

This does not mean that they will vanish, but that the cities will be destroyed.

# the kingdom from Damascus

The words "will disappear" are understood from the previous phrase. Damascus was where the king of Aram ruled from. The kingdom disappearing represents the king no longer having royal power. AT: "the kingdom will disappear from Damascus" or "there will be no royal power in Damascus" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-ellipsis]] and [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metonymy]])

# Aram

Aram is the name of a nation. See how you translated this in [Isaiah 7:1](../07/01.md). (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/translate-names]])

# they will be like the glory of the people of Israel

Since the people of Israel were no longer glorious, this meant that the remnant of Aram would no longer be glorious. AT: "they will no longer have glory, just like the people of Israel" or "I will bring shame on them as I did the people of Israel" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-irony]])

# this is the declaration of Yahweh of hosts

Yahweh speaks of himself by name to express the certainty of what he is declaring. Translate as in [Isaiah 14:22](../14/21.md). AT: "this is what Yahweh of hosts has declared" or "this is what I, Yahweh of hosts, have declared" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-123person]])

# translationWords

* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/declare]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/damascus]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/ruin]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/flock]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/ephraim]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/kingdom]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/remnant]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/aram]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/glory]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/yahwehofhosts]]