# General Information:

This continues to compare the nation of Israel with a field after it is harvested. (See: [Isaiah 17:4-5](./04.md))

# Gleanings will be left

The word "Gleanings" here represents the people who will still live in Israel. AT: "But there will be a few people left in Israel" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metaphor]])

# as when the olive tree is shaken

People harvested olive trees by shaking them so that the olives would fall out. AT: "like the few olives that remain on the olive trees after people harvest them" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-simile]])

# four or five

The word "olives" is understood from the phrase before this. AT: "four or five olives" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-ellipsis]])

# this is the declaration of Yahweh, the God of Israel

Yahweh speaks of himself by name to express the certainty of what he is declaring. AT: "this is what Yahweh, the God of Israel, has declared" or "this is what I, Yahweh, the God of Israel, have declared" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-123person]])

# men will look toward their Maker ... will look to the Holy One of Israel

Looking toward God here represents hoping that he will help them. AT: "men will hope that their Maker, the Holy One of Israel, will help them" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-idiom]])

# men will look

The word "men" represents people in general. AT: "people will look" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-synecdoche]])

# their eyes will look

Here "eyes" represents the people who look. AT: "they will look" or "the people will look" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-synecdoche]])

# Holy One of Israel

See how you translated this in [Isaiah 1:4](../01/04.md).

# translationWords

* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/glean]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/olive]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/declare]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/yahweh]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/god]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/israel]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/holyone]]