# gathered Judah together

Here "Judah" refers to the people who lived in Judah. AT: "gathered the people of Judah together" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metonymy]])

# registered them ... numbered them

He had someone write their names on an official list.

# by their ancestors' houses

Here the word "houses" is a metonym for the families that lived in them. AT: "by their ancestors' families" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metonymy]])

# commanders of thousands and commanders of hundreds

Possible meanings are 1) these numbers represent the exact amount of soldiers that these commanders led. AT: "commanders of 1,000 soldiers and commanders of 100 soldiers" or 2) the words translated as "thousands" and "hundreds" do not represent exact numbers, but are the names of larger and smaller military divisions. AT: "commanders of large military divisions and commanders of smaller military divisions" See how you translated a similar phrase in [2 Chronicles 1:2](../01/02.md). (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/translate-numbers]])

# all of Judah and Benjamin

Here "Judah" and "Benjamin" refer to the people who lived in the wider kingdom of Judah. AT: "all the people of Judah and Benjamin" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metonymy]])

# twenty years old and upward

Here numbers that were larger than twenty are spoken of as if they were higher. AT: "20 years old and older" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metaphor]])

# found them to be

"learned that there were"

# 300,000 ... 100,000

"three hundred thousand ... one hundred thousand" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/translate-numbers]])

# chosen men

"capable soldiers" or "skilled warriors"

# one hundred talents of silver

"100 talents of silver." You may convert this to a modern measure. AT: "about thirty-three hundred kilograms of silver" or "about 3,300 kilograms of silver" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/translate-numbers]] and [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/translate-bweight]])

# translationWords

* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/judah]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/house]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/command]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/benjamin]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/kingdomofisrael]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/silver]]