# Now it came about

This phrase is used here to mark the beginning of a new part of the story. If your language has a way for doing this, you could consider using it here.

# the slaughter of the Edomites

"slaughtering the Edomites" or "killing the Edomites"

# the gods of the people of Seir

"the gods that the people of Seir worshiped"

# bowed down ... burned incense

These are symbolic acts of worship. (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/translate-symaction]])

# Yahweh's anger was kindled against Amaziah

Here the increase in Yahweh's anger is spoken of as if it were a growing fire. AT: "Yahweh's anger grew like a fire against Amaziah" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metaphor]])

# Why have you sought after the gods of a people who did not even save their own people from your hand?

The prophet uses this rhetorical question to rebuke Amaziah for worshiping the powerless gods of the people he had defeated. Here the word "hand" is a metonym for power. The question can be translated as a statement. AT: "You have worshiped the gods of a people that did not even save their own people from your power, King Amaziah." (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-rquestion]] and [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metonymy]])

# the gods ... who did not even save their own people

This expresses the popular opinion of the day that the gods determined who won battles.

# translationWords

* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/slaughter]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/edom]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/falsegod]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/bow]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/incense]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/prophet]]