# General Information:

If your language does not use rhetorical questions, you may reword these as statements.

# why has Satan filled your heart to lie ... land?

Peter uses this question to rebuke Ananias. AT: "you should not have let Satan convince you to lie ... land" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-rquestion]])

# Satan filled your heart

Here the word "heart" refers to the will and emotions. Possible meanings are 1) "Satan completely controlled you" or 2) "Satan convinced you" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metonymy]] and [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-idiom]])

# to lie to the Holy Spirit and to keep back part of the price

This implies that Ananias had told the apostles that he was giving the entire amount that he had received from selling his land. (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-explicit]])

# While it remained unsold, did it not remain your own?

Peter uses this question to rebuke Ananias. AT: "While it remained unsold, it was your own possession" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-rquestion]])

# While it remained unsold

"While you had not sold it"

# after it was sold, was it not in your control?

Peter uses this question to rebuke Ananias. AT: "after it was sold, you had control over the money that you received." (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-rquestion]])

# after it was sold

This can be stated in active form. AT: "after you sold it" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-activepassive]])

# How is it that you thought of this thing in your heart?

Peter used this question to rebuke Ananias. Here the word "heart" refers to the will and emotions. AT: "You should not have thought of doing this thing" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-rquestion]] and [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metonymy]])

# fell down and breathed his last

Here "breathed his last" means "breathed his final breath" and is a polite way of saying that he died. Ananias fell down because he died; he did not die because he fell down. AT: "died and fell to the ground" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-euphemism]])

# translationWords

* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/peter]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/satan]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/heart]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/holyspirit]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/god]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/breath]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/fear]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/bury]]