# General Information:

Here first word "they" refers to the council members. The rest of the words "them," "They," and "they" refer to the apostles.

# they called the apostles in and beat them

The council members would have ordered the temple guards to do these things. (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metonymy]])

# to speak in the name of Jesus

Here "name" refers to the authority of Jesus. See how you translated a similar phrase in [Acts 4:18](../04/15.md). AT: "to speak anymore in the authority of Jesus" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metonymy]])

# they were counted worthy to suffer dishonor for the Name

The apostles rejoiced because God had honored them by letting the Jewish leaders dishonor them. This can be stated in active form. AT: "God had counted them worthy to suffer dishonor for the Name" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-activepassive]])

# for the Name

Here "the Name" refers to Jesus. AT: "for Jesus" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metonymy]])

# Thereafter every day

"After that day, every day." This phrase marks what the apostles did every day through the following days.

# in the temple and from house to house

They did not go into the temple building where only the priests went. AT: "in the temple courtyard and in different people's houses" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-explicit]])

# translationWords

* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/call]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/apostle]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/command]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/name]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/jesus]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/council]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/rejoice]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/worthy]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/suffer]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/dishonor]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/temple]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/preach]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/christ]]