# General Information:

In Isaiah's parable of the vineyard, the owner of the vineyard, who represents God, speaks to the people of Jerusalem and Judah about his vineyard. (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-parables]])

# inhabitant of Jerusalem and man of Judah

These expressions refer in general to all people living in Jerusalem and Judah, so they can be translated with plural nouns. AT: "all of you who live in Jerusalem and Judah" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-genericnoun]])

# Jerusalem ... Judah

"Judah" was the name of the southern kingdom of Israelites, and Jerusalem was the capital city.

# judge between me and my vineyard

The idea of a space separating two things is often used to express the idea of choosing one or the other of those things. AT: "decide who has acted right, I or my vineyard" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metaphor]])

# What more could have been done for my vineyard, that I have not done for it?

The owner uses this question to make a statement about his vineyard. This rhetorical questions can be translated as a stataement. AT: "I have done all that I could do for my vineyard!" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-rquestion]])

# When I looked for it to produce grapes, why did it produce wild grapes?

The owner uses a question to say that his vineyard should have produced good grapes. This rhetorical question can be translated as a statement. AT: "I wanted it to make good grapes, but it only produced worthless grapes" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-rquestion]])

# translationWords

* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/names/jerusalem]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/names/judah]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/judge]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/vineyard]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/grape]]