# General Information:

Isaiah explains the parable of the vineyard.

# For the vineyard of Yahweh of hosts is the house of Israel

Isaiah states that the vineyard in the parable represents the people of Israel. AT: "For the vineyard of Yahweh of hosts represents the house of Israel" or "The people of Israel are like the vineyard of Yahweh, Lord of the angel armies" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-parables]])

# the house of Israel

The word "house" is a metonym for the family that lives in the house. In this case it refers to the kingdom of Israel. AT: "Israel" or "the kingdom of Israel" or "the people of Israel" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metonymy]])

# the man of Judah his pleasant planting

The people of Judah are spoken of as if they are a vine that Yahweh planted. This can be stated as a simile. AT: "the people of Judah are like a vine that that Yahweh planted for Yahweh's pleasure" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metaphor]] and [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-simile]])

# the man of Judah

Here "man" represents all the people of Judah. AT: "the people of Judah" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-genericnoun]])

# he waited for justice, but instead, there was killing

This can be changed so that the abstract noun "justice" can be expressed by the verb "do what is fair." The abstract noun "killing" can be expressed as "killed one another." AT: "Yahweh waited for the people to do what is fair, but instead they killed one another" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-abstractnouns]])

# for righteousness

The phrase "he waited" is understood from earlier in the verse. It can be repeated to make the meaning clear. AT: "He waited for righteousness" or "He waited for them to do what is right" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-ellipsis]])

# instead, a shout for help

The words "there was" are understood from earlier in the verse. They can be repeated to make the meaning clear. The reason people shouted out for help can be made explicit. AT: "instead, there was a shout for help" or "instead, those who were weak shouted out for someone to help them because others were attacking them" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-ellipsis]] and [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-explicit]])

# a shout

This expression probably stands for many shouts. (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-genericnoun]])

# translationWords

* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/vineyard]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/yahwehofhosts]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/house]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/israel]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/names/judah]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/justice]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/righteous]]