# Man will be forced to bend down, and mankind will be humbled

The phrases used together mean the same thing and are used together for emphasis. This can be stated in active form. See how you translated similar words in [Isaiah 2:9](../02/09.md). AT: "God will make every person bow down and be humble" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-parallelism]] and [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-activepassive]])

# Man will be forced to bend down, and mankind will be humbled

Future events are spoken of as if they have already happened. (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-pastforfuture]])

# Man will be forced to bend down

Bending down often symbolizes being humiliated. (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/translate-symaction]])

# the eyes of the lofty will be cast down

Looking down is often a sign of being ashamed. See how you translated similar words in [Isaiah 2:11](../02/09.md). AT: "the eyes of proud people will look down in shame" or "people who were proud are now ashamed" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metonymy]])

# the lofty

Here proud, arrogant people are spoken of as if they are high above other people. AT: "proud" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metaphor]])

# Yahweh of hosts will be exalted in his justice

This can be stated in active form. AT: "People will praise Yahweh of hosts because he is just" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-activepassive]])

# Yahweh of hosts

See how you translated this in [Isaiah 1:9](../01/09.md).

# will be exalted

Being honored is spoken of as if it were being lifted high. AT: "will be greatly honored" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metaphor]])

# the sheep will feed as in their own pasture

Yahweh will destroy the city of Jerusalem, which was called a "vineyard" in [Isaiah 5:1](./01.md). It will become good for nothing except for sheep to eat grass there.

# graze

eat grass

# in the ruins, lambs will graze as foreigners

That is, the lambs will graze there. The land will be worthless for any other use. (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-simile]])

# translationWords

* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/humble]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/yahwehofhosts]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/exalt]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/justice]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/holyone]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/righteous]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/lamb]]