# the anger of Yahweh is kindled

Isaiah speaks of Yahweh's anger as if it were a fire. AT: "Yahweh is very angry" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metaphor]])

# He has reached out with his hand against them and has punished them

The prophet speaks of the future as if it had already happened. He does this to insist that the prophecy certainly will come about. AT: "he will punish them with his powerful hand" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-pastforfuture]])

# has reached out with his hand against them

Here "hand" refers to God's power and control. AT: "has shown his power against them" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metonymy]])

# corpses

"dead bodies"

# their corpses are like garbage in the streets

The dead bodies are allowed to lie in the streets as if they were garbage. This implies that many will die but that no one will be there to bury them. The word "garbage" can also be translated as "refuse" or "manure." (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-simile]])

# In all these things, his anger does not subside; instead, his hand

"Even though all these things have happened, he is still angry, and his hand"

# his hand is still stretched out

Here "hand" represents God's power and control. Isaiah speaks as if Yahweh were a person about to hit another person with his fist. This is a metaphor for Yahweh punishing Israel. AT: "he will still be ready to punish them" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metonymy]] and [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metaphor]])