# General Information:

Isaiah continues to describe the army that will attack Judah. He describes it as if it were already existing. (See: [Isaiah 5:26](./26.md))

# tire ... stumble ... slumbers ... sleeps

These four words progress from being tired from work to being unable to walk well, to being unable to stay awake, to full sleep, so all four should appear in the translation.

# Nor are their belts loose

The soldiers kept their clothes tight so it would easier to move and fight.

# the thongs of their sandals

"the straps of their sandals"

# their horses' hooves are like flint

"their hooves are like hard stone." Isaiah compares the hard part of a horse's foot to flint, which is a hard stone that can cause sparks when struck. Possible meanings are 1) Isaiah compares their hooves to flint so to describe the frightening image of their feet causing sparks as they run or 2) Isaiah compares their hooves to flint to emphasize how strong their hooves are which enables the horse to do whatever their master want them to do. (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-simile]])

# their chariot wheels like storms

Isaiah compares the chariot wheels to storms in order to imply that they will destroy everything in their path. AT: "the wheels of the chariots will spin like a windstorm" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-simile]])

# chariot wheels

These wheels often had sharp blades attached to them that would cut to pieces anyone the chariot passed close to.

# translationWords

* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/stumble]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/bowweapon]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/horse]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/chariot]]