# General Information:

Micah continues to speak judgment against false prophets.

# who lead my people astray

Walking on a good path is a metaphor for obeying God. Going astray from the path is a metaphor for disobeying God, in this case perhaps without knowing it. AT: "who lead my people to disobey me" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metaphor]])

# if one gives them something to eat, they proclaim, 'Peace.'

Micah is using a metaphor to describe a situation that actually happens. The phrase "something to eat" is an ironic way of speaking of a small payment. AT: "they tell people who pay them even a small amount that things will go well for those people." (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metaphor]] and [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-irony]])

# if he puts nothing in their mouths, they dedicate themselves to wage war on him

Micah is using a metaphor to describe a situation that actually happens. The phrase "puts nothing in their mouths" is an ironic exaggeration for not giving what they want. AT: "they do all they can to destroy people who pay them too little" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metaphor]] and [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-irony]])

# it will be night for you ... the day will be dark on them

Darkness is a metaphor for Yahweh not speaking to the prophets. (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metaphor]])

# no vision for you

"you will no longer see visions"

# The seers will be put to shame, and the diviners will be confused

This can be translated in active form. AT: "I will cause the seers to be ashamed, and I will confuse the diviners" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-activepassive]])

# All of them will cover their lips

Here "lips" represents speaking. AT: "They shall no longer speak" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metonymy]])

# there is no answer from me

"I will be silent"