# house of Jacob

The word "house" is a metonym for the family that lives in the house. In this case it refers to Jacob's descendants. AT: "descendants of Jacob" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metonymy]])

# the house of Israel

The word "house" is a metonym for the family that lives in the house. In this case it refers to Israel's descendants, who had become the nation of Israel. AT: "descendants of Israel" or "you Israelites" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metonymy]])

# detest

strongly dislike

# You build Zion with blood and Jerusalem with iniquity

"Blood" here is a metonym for murder, and "Zion" and "Jerusalem" are spoken of as if they were buildings. Micah speaks of the rich murdering people and sinning in other ways as if those activities were the bricks and wood with which people use to build houses. AT: "You commit murder and other horrible sins as you work to make Zion and Jerusalem great" or "You commit murder as you worship in Zion, and you commit other sins as you get rich in Jerusalem" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metaphor]] and [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metonymy]])

# Is not Yahweh with us?

The leaders strongly believe that Yahweh is with them. This can be translated as a statement. AT: "We know that Yahweh is with us!" or "We know that Yahweh will help us do what we want to do!" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-rquestion]])

# evil

See how you translated "disaster" in [Micah 1:12](../01/11.md).

# translationWords

* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/house]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/names/jacob]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/ruler]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/israel]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/justice]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/zion]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/blood]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/names/jerusalem]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/iniquity]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/judge]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/bribe]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/priest]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/prophet]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/divination]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/yahweh]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/evil]]