# this is Yahweh's declaration

Yahweh speaks of himself by name to express the certainty of what he is declaring. See how you translated this in [Jeremiah 1:8](../01/07.md). AT: "this is what Yahweh has declared" or "this is what I, Yahweh, have declared" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-123person]])

# you have provoked me with the work of your hands to do harm to you

See how you translated a similar phrase in [Jeremiah 25:6](./05.md). Possible meanings for the phrase "the work of your hands" are 1) it is a reference to the idols that the people have made with their hands. AT: "you have provoked me to harm you because of the idols that you have made with your hands" or 2) It is an idiom that refers to the actions of a person, with the word "hands" being a synecdoche that represents the person who does those actions. AT: "you have provoked me to harm you because of the things that you do" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-explicit]] and [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-synecdoche]] and [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-idiom]])

# to do harm to you

"so that I do harm to you"

# Yahweh of hosts says this

Jeremiah often uses these words to introduce an important message from Yahweh. See how you translated this in [Jeremiah 6:6](../06/06.md).

# see

"Indeed." The word "see" here adds emphasis to what follows.

# bring them against this land

The idiom to "bring ... against this land" means that they will attack the people who live in the land. AT: "bring them to attack this land" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-idiom]])

# I will set them apart for destruction

The idiom "set ... apart for destruction" means to destroy something completely. AT: "I will destroy them completely" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-idiom]])

# I will turn them into a horror

The word "horror" may be translated with a verbal phrase. AT: "I will turn them into something that horrifies people" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-abstractnouns]])

# an object for hissing

The word "hissing" refers to a sound that shows strong disapproval and can be translated with a verbal phrase. AT: "an object at which people will hiss"