# Connecting Statement:

This passage continues the metaphor of Yahweh's extreme anger as wine that he causes the people of the nations to drink from a cup. (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metaphor]])

# Yahweh of hosts ... says this

Jeremiah often uses these words to introduce an important message from Yahweh. See how you translated this in [Jeremiah 6:6](../06/06.md).

# before the sword that I am sending among you

Here the word "sword" represents war. AT: "before the wars that I am causing to happen among you" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metonymy]])

# the city that is called by my name

This refers to Jerusalem and can be translated in active form. AT: "the city that I have called by my name" or "Jerusalem, which I have called by my name" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metonymy]])

# and should you yourselves be free from punishment?

Yahweh asks this question to rebuke the people and to emphasize that he will certainly punish them. AT: "so do not think that you yourselves will be free from punishment." (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-rquestion]])

# I am calling a sword against all the inhabitants of the land

Here the word "sword" represents war. Yahweh speaks of declaring war against the people as if he were calling a sword against them. AT: "I am declaring war against all the inhabitants of the land" or "I am bringing war against all the inhabitants of the land" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metonymy]] and [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metaphor]])

# translationWords

* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/yahweh]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/yahwehofhosts]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/god]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/israel]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/sword]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/drunk]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/raise]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/call]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/name]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/free]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/punish]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/declare]]