# Yahweh will roar

Jeremiah speaks of Yahweh shouting very loudly as if he were roaring like a lion. (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metaphor]])

# from the heights

This phrase is a metonym for heaven. AT: "from heaven" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metonymy]])

# he will roar mightily against his fold

Jeremiah speaks of Yahweh as if he were a lion and his people were a flock of sheep. The people will be helpless when Yahweh comes to punish them, as sheep are helpless when a lion attacks. (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metaphor]])

# those who tread the grapes

This refers to people who crush grapes in a winepress with their feet in order to make wine.

# to the ends of the earth

This is an idiom that means the farthest places on the earth. By referencing both ends, it refers to everywhere in between. AT: "to the farthest places on the earth" or "to everywhere on earth" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-idiom]] and [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-merism]])

# on all flesh

Here the word "flesh" represents humanity. AT: "on all mankind" or "on all people" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metonymy]])

# He will hand over the wicked ones to the sword

Here the word "sword" represents war. Jeremiah speaks of Yahweh causing people to die in battle as if he were placing those people under the sword's power. AT: "He will cause wicked people to die in battle" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metonymy]] and [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metaphor]])

# this is Yahweh's declaration

Yahweh speaks of himself by name to express the certainty of what he is declaring. See how you translated this in [Jeremiah 1:8](../01/07.md). AT: "this is what Yahweh has declared" or "this is what I, Yahweh, have declared" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-123person]])

# translationWords

* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/jeremiah]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/prophet]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/word]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/voice]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/grape]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/flesh]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/hand]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/evil]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/sword]]