# Yahweh of hosts says this

Jeremiah often uses these words to introduce an important message from Yahweh. See how you translated this in [Jeremiah 6:6](../06/06.md).

# See

"Look" or "Listen." This word adds emphasis to what is said next. AT: "Pay attention to what I am about to tell you"

# disaster is going out from nation to nation

Yahweh speaks of great disasters happening in each nation as if "disaster" were a person who goes from nation to nation. AT: "great disasters are going to happen in one nation after another" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-personification]])

# a great storm is beginning from the farthest parts of the earth

Possible meanings for this metaphor are 1) Yahweh speaks of Babylonian army and the destruction that it will cause as if it were a great storm or 2) Yahweh speaks of his great anger as if it were a great storm that causes much destruction. (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metaphor]])

# those killed by Yahweh

This can be stated in active form. AT: "those whom Yahweh killed" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-activepassive]])

# will on that day extend from one end of the earth to the other

By mentioning both ends of the earth, this phrase represents everywhere in between those ends. AT: "will on that day cover the entire earth" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-merism]])

# they will not be mourned, gathered, or buried

This can be stated in active form. AT: "no one will mourn them, gather them, or bury them" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-activepassive]])

# They will be like dung on the ground

The bodies are compared to dung on the ground to emphasize that they will be disgusting and that no one will bury them. See how you translated a similar phrase in [Jeremiah 16:4](../16/01.md). (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-simile]])

# translationWords

* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/nation]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/mourn]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/bury]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/dung]]