# the waters of Noah

This refers to the flood that Yahweh caused during the time of Noah. (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-explicit]])

# Though the mountains may fall and the hills be shaken, yet my steadfast love

Yahweh describes a hypothetical condition to explain what would happen even if those conditions were met. AT: "Even if the mountains fell and the hills shook, my steadfast love" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-hypo]])

# the hills be shaken

This can be stated in active form. AT: "the hills may shake" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-activepassive]])

# my steadfast love will not turn away from you

Yahweh continuing to love his people is spoken of as if his love would not turn away from the people. AT: "I will not stop loving you" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metaphor]])

# nor will my covenant of peace be shaken

Yahweh not canceling his covenant with the people is spoken of as if his covenant were an object that would not be shaken. This can be stated in active form. AT: "and I will not cancel my covenant of peace" or "and I will surely give you peace as I promised in my covenant" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metaphor]] and [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-activepassive]])

# says Yahweh, who has mercy on you

Here Yahweh speaks about himself in the third person. It can be stated in first person. AT: "that is what I, Yahweh, who acts mercifully, say" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-123person]])

# translationWords

* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/water]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/noah]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/oath]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/earth]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/angry]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/rebuke]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/covenantfaith]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/turn]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/peace]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/yahweh]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/mercy]]