# General Information:

The writer continues to describe what God did for the people of Israel.

# the tent of Joseph

Here the word "tent" is a metonym for a family. In this phrase it refers to the descendants of Joseph. AT: "the descendants of Joseph" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metonymy]])

# Joseph ... Ephraim

Ephraim was Joseph's son.

# Judah ... Mount Zion

Mount Zion was in the land where the tribe of Judah lived.

# He built his sanctuary like the heavens

Possible meanings for this simile are 1) Yahweh has made his sanctuary as high as the heavens. AT: "He built his sanctuary high, like the heavens" or 2) Yahweh has made his sanctuary as permanent as the heavens. AT: "He built his sanctuary to last permanently, like the heavens last forever" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-simile]])

# like the earth

The verb may be supplied from the previous line. The writer compares the permanence of Yahweh's sanctuary to the permanence of the earth. AT: "He built his sanctuary to last permanently, like the earth lasts permanently" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-ellipsis]] and [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-simile]])

# translationWords

* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/reject]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/names/josephot]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/elect]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/tribe]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/names/ephraim]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/names/judah]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/zion]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/love]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/sanctuary]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/heaven]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/earth]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/eternity]]