# Connecting Statement:

This is part of the taunt song that the Israelites will sing to the king of Babylon.

# The whole earth

This refers to everyone on earth. AT: "everyone on earth" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metonymy]])

# Even the cypress trees rejoice over you with the cedars of Lebanon

Isaiah speaks of the trees as if they were people who could rejoice. This emphasizes that it is such a great thing that God has stopped the king of Babylon that even nature would rejoice if it could. AT: "It will be as if even the cyprus trees and the cedars of Lebanon rejoice over you" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-personification]])

# rejoice over you

Why they rejoice can be stated clearly. AT: "rejoice that God has made you powerless" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-explicit]])

# Since you are laid low

Being laid low represents being made powerless and unimportant. AT: "Since you have become powerless" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metaphor]])

# Sheol below is eager to meet you

Sheol is spoken of as if it were a person who is eager to meet his guests. This implies that the king dies. AT: "Sheol is like a host eager to meet you" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-personification]])

# It arouses the dead for you, all the kings of the earth

"it wakes up the dead for you, all the kings of the earth." Sheol is spoken of as if it were a person that could wake up those who are in it. AT: "All the dead kings of the earth in Sheol wake up to greet you" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-personification]])

# translationWords

* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/rest]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/fir]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/joy]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/cedar]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/names/lebanon]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/hades]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/death]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/throne]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/nation]]