# Connecting Statement:

This is the end of the taunt song that the Israelites will sing to the king of Babylon.

# all of them lie down in honor

This means that their bodies were buried in an honorable way. AT: "all the kings who have died are buried in an honorable way" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-explicit]])

# But you are cast out of your grave

Being thrown out of the grave represents not being buried. AT: "But you are not buried. Your body is left on the ground" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metaphor]])

# like a branch thrown away

A branch thrown away represents something worthless. AT: "like a worthless branch that is tossed aside" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-simile]])

# The dead cover you like a garment

This represents many dead bodies being on top of his body. AT: "The bodies of dead people completely cover your body" or "The bodies of dead soldiers are piled on top of your body" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-simile]])

# those pierced by the sword

This describes "the dead" spoken of at the beginning of this sentence. Being pierced by the sword represents being killed in battle. AT: "those who were killed in battle" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metonymy]])

# who go down to the stones of the pit

The pit refers either to hell, or to a large hole in the ground where many dead bodies are simply dumped.

# You will not join them in burial

The word "them" refers to the other kings who died and were buried properly. Joining them in burial represents being buried as they were. AT: "you will never be buried as other kings were buried" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metaphor]])

# The offspring of evildoers will never be mentioned again

This can be stated in active form. AT: "no one will ever speak again about the descendants of evildoers" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-activepassive]])