# Prepare your slaughter for his children

This can be reworded so that the abstract noun "slaughter" is expressed with the verb "kill." AT: "Get ready to kill the children of the king of Babylon" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-abstractnouns]])

# for the iniquity of their ancestors

This can be reworded so that the abstract noun "iniquity" is expressed as the verb "sinned greatly." AT: "because their forefathers have sinned greatly" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-abstractnouns]])

# so they will not rise up

Here "rise up" represents either becoming powerful or attacking. AT: "so they will not become powerful" or "so they will not attack" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metonymy]])

# possess the earth

This represents taking control of the people on the earth, in this case by conquering them. AT: "take control of the peoples on the earth" or "conquer the peoples on the earth" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metaphor]])

# fill the whole world with cities

This represents causing the world to have many cities on it. AT: "build cities all over the world" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metaphor]])

# I will rise up against them

This means that God will do something against them. The word "them" refers to the people of Babylon. AT: "I will attack them" or "I will send people to attack them" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metonymy]])

# this is the declaration of Yahweh of hosts

Yahweh speaks of himself by name to express the certainty of what he is declaring. AT: "this is what Yahweh of hosts has declared" or "this is what I, Yahweh of hosts, have declared" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-123person]])

# Yahweh of hosts

See how you translated this in [Isaiah 1:9](../01/09.md).

# I will cut off from Babylon name, descendant, and posterity

"Cut off" represents destroying. Here "Babylon" refers to the people of Babylon. Also, "name" refers either to Babylon's fame or to Babylon itself as a kingdom. AT: "I will destroy Babylon, along with the people's children and grandchildren" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metonymy]])

# I will also make her

The word "her" refers to the city of Babylon. Cities were often spoken of as if they were women. AT: "I will also make it" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-personification]])

# a possession of owls

This represents wild animals living in the city because there are no people there. AT: "a place where owls live" or "a place where wild animals live" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metaphor]])

# into pools of water

Causing there to be swamps or ponds of stagnant water where the city was is spoken of as making the city into those things. AT: "into a place where there are stagnant ponds" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metaphor]])

# I will sweep her with the broom of destruction

This represents completely destroying Babylon and making it no longer exist as if it is worthless dirt that people sweep away. AT: "I will destroy it completely, like sweeping it away with a broom" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metaphor]])

# translationWords

* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/children]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/iniquity]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/earth]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/world]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/declare]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/yahwehofhosts]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/cutoff]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/babylon]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/name]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/descendant]]