# Yahweh of hosts

See how you translated this in [Isaiah 1:9](../01/09.md).

# as I have intended, so it will come about; and as I have purposed, so it will be

These two phrases mean basically the same thing. AT: "the things that I have planned will surely happen" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-parallelism]])

# I will break the Assyrian in my land

Breaking represents defeating. AT: "I will defeat the Assyrian in my land" or "I will cause the Assyrian in my land to be defeated" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metaphor]])

# the Assyrian

This represents the Assyrian king and his army. AT: "the king of Assyria and his army" or "the Assyrian army" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-synecdoche]])

# trample him underfoot

This represents completely defeating him. (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metaphor]])

# Then his yoke will be lifted from off them and his burden from off their shoulder

This can be expressed with an active verb. AT: "Then I will lift his yoke from them and his burden from their shoulder" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-activepassive]])

# Then his yoke will be lifted from off them and his burden from off their shoulder

These two phrases mean basically the same thing. Lifting the yoke and burden represents setting people free from slavery. AT: "Then I will set the Israelites free from slavery to Assyria like removing a heavy burden from their shoulder" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-parallelism]] and [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metaphor]])

# his yoke ... his burden

The word "his" refers to Assyria.

# from off them ... from off their shoulder

The words "them" and "their" refer to the people of Israel.