# General Information:

Parallelism is common in Hebrew poetry. (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/writing-poetry]] and [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-parallelism]])

# A psalm of David

Possible meanings are 1) David wrote the psalm or 2) the psalm is about David or 3) the psalm is in the style of David's psalms.

# I have walked

The word "walked" is a metaphor for behavior. AT: "I have behaved" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metaphor]])

# in Yahweh

The third person use of "Yahweh" can be stated in the second person. AT: "in you" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-123person]])

# without wavering

Doubting is spoken of as if it were losing balance and waving back and forth. AT: "without doubting" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metaphor]])

# Examine me

"Try me"

# test the purity of my inner parts and my heart

Here "inner parts" and "heart" mean motives. AT: "test whether my motives are good" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-doublet]])

# For your covenant faithfulness is before my eyes

Here "eyes" represent a person's thoughts and having something before one's eyes represents being aware of that thing. The abstract noun "faithfulness" can be translated as an adjective. AT: "For I am always aware of your covenant faithfulness" or "For I am always aware that you are faithful to your covenant" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metaphor]] and [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-abstractnouns]])

# I walk about in your faithfulness

The word "walk" is a metaphor for behavior. The abstract noun "faithfulness" can be translated with an adjective. AT: "I conduct my life according to your faithfulness" or "I behave the way I do because you are faithful" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metaphor]] and [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-abstractnouns]])

# translationWords

* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/psalm]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/names/david]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/judge]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/yahweh]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/walk]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/integrity]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/trust]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/test]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/purify]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/heart]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/covenantfaith]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/true]]