# But will God actually live on the earth?

Possible meanings of this question are 1) Solomon is asking a real question and expecting an answer or 2) the question is rhetorical and Solomon is emphasizing that God is too big and mighty to live on earth. AT: "But it surely cannot be that God will actually live on the earth!" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-rquestion]])

# But will God

Here Solomon speaks about God in the third person. It can be stated in the second person. AT: "But will you" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-123person]])

# Look

"What I am about to say is important" or "The truth is that"

# you—how much less can this temple that I have built

"you, so this temple that I have built certainly cannot contain you"

# respect this prayer of your servant and his request

The words "prayer" and "request" mean basically the same thing and emphasize that he is sincere as he makes his request. Solomon refers to himself as "your servant" to show that he respects Yahweh. This can be stated in first person. AT: "respect me, your servant, as I make this request" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-doublet]] and [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-pronouns]])

# listen to the cry and prayer that your servant prays before you today

The words "cry" and "prayer" mean basically the same thing and emphasize that he is sincere as he asks Yahweh to help him. Solomon refers to himself as "your servant" to show that he respects Yahweh. This can be stated in first person. AT: "listen to me, your servant, as I call today for you to help me" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-doublet]] and [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-pronouns]])

# translationWords

* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/earth]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/heaven]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/temple]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/servant]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/yahweh]]