# the word of Yahweh came

This is an idiom that is used to introduce something that God told his prophets or his people. See how you translated this in [Ezekiel 3:16](../03/16.md). AT: "Yahweh spoke this message" or "Yahweh spoke these words" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-idiom]])

# Son of man

"Son of a human being" or "Son of humanity." God calls Ezekiel this to emphasize that Ezekiel is only a human being. God is eternal and powerful, but humans are not. AT: "Mortal person" or "Human"

# Your heart is arrogant

Here "heart" represents the will or thoughts of the ruler of Tyre. AT: "You are arrogant" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metonymy]])

# arrogant

"proud"

# I will sit in the seat of the gods

"I will sit on the throne of the gods." Here sitting in the seat of the gods represents claiming to be in the same exalted position as if he were one of the gods. (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metaphor]])

# heart of the seas

"middle of the seas." See how you translated this in [Ezekiel 27:4](../27/04.md).

# you make your heart like the heart of a god

Here "heart" represents the mind or thinking. A god thinks of himself as better than people. AT: "you think that you have the mind of a god" or "you have allowed yourself to think that you are better than other people" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metonymy]] and [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-simile]])

# you think that you are wiser than Daniel

Here the ruler of Tyre compares himself to Daniel the prophet in how wise he thought he was. (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-simile]])