# General Information:

Yahweh continues giving Ezekiel his message to the ruler of Tyre.

# General Information:

The word "They" refers to foreign armies. The words "you" and "your" in these verses refer to the king of Tyre.

# down to the pit

Here "the pit" refers to the grave or to hell. AT: "down to the grave" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metonymy]])

# in the heart of the seas

"in the middle of the seas"

# Will you truly say, "I am a god" to the face of one who kills you?

This question expects a negative answer to emphasize the irony when one who claims to be a god is destroyed by men. It can be translated as a statement. AT: "You will not say 'I am a god' to the face of one who kills you!" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-rquestion]] and [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-irony]])

# to the face of

Here the face represents being in the presence of another person. AT: "in the presence of" or "before" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-synecdoche]])

# in the hand of

Here being in the hand of someone represents being under their control. AT: "under the control of" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metaphor]])

# by the hand of foreigners

Here "hand" is a metonym for the actions of the foreigners' army. AT: "by an army of foreigners" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metonymy]])

# this is the Lord Yahweh's declaration

Yahweh speaks of himself by name to express the certainty of what he is declaring. See how you translated this in [Ezekiel 5:11](../05/11.md). AT: "this is what the Lord Yahweh has declared" or "this is what I, the Lord Yahweh, have declared" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-123person]])

# translationWords

* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/pit]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/death]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/face]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/god]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/hand]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/uncircumcised]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/declare]]