# the word of Yahweh came

This is an idiom that is used to introduce something that God told his prophets or his people. See how you translated this in [Ezekiel 3:16](../03/16.md). AT: "Yahweh spoke this message" or "Yahweh spoke these words" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-idiom]])

# Son of man

"Son of a human being" or "Son of humanity." God calls Ezekiel this to emphasize that Ezekiel is only a human being. God is eternal and powerful, but humans are not. See how you translated this in [Ezekiel 2:1](../02/01.md). AT: "Mortal person" or "Human"

# set your face against Sidon

Sidon was far away, so Ezekiel could not see it, but staring in that direction would be a symbol of harming the people there. See how you translated a similar phrase in [Ezekiel 6:2](../06/01.md). AT: "Turn toward Sidon and stare" or "stare toward Sidon so that the people there will be harmed" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/translate-symaction]])

# prophesy against

"prophesy about the bad things that will happen to." See how you translated this in [Ezekiel 4:7](../04/06.md).

# Behold!

"Look!" or "Listen!" or "Pay attention to what I am about to tell you!"

# I will be glorified in your midst

This can be stated in active form. AT: "I will reveal my glory among you" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-activepassive]])

# know that I am Yahweh

When Yahweh says that people will know that he is Yahweh, he is implying that they will know that he is the one true God who has supreme authority and power. See how you translated this in [Ezekiel 6:7](../06/06.md). AT: "understand that I am Yahweh, the one true God" or "realize that I, Yahweh, have supreme power and authority" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-explicit]])

# when I execute justice within you

The abstract noun "justice" can be translated using the verb "judge." AT: "when I judge you" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-abstractnouns]])

# I will be shown to be holy in you

This can be stated in active form. AT: "I will use you to show you that I am holy" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-activepassive]])

# translationWords

* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/names/sidon]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/prophet]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/lordyahweh]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/glorify]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/justice]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/holy]]