# Connecting Statement:

Yahweh continues giving Ezekiel his message to Sidon.

# General Information:

The words "you" and "your" in these verses refer to Sidon.

# blood in your streets

Here "blood" refers to the blood of the people of Sidon and represents those whom their enemies would kill. (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metaphor]])

# the slain will fall

Here "the slain" means the people of Sidon whom their enemies would kill. AT: "the slain people will fall" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-nominaladj]])

# When the sword comes against you

Here "sword" is a metonym for an attacking enemy army. AT: "When enemy armies attack you" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metonymy]])

# pricking briars and painful thorns for the house of Israel from all those around her who despise her people

Here the briars and thorns represent what would cause suffering and pain. AT: "people anywhere around the house of Israel who wound them like briars, hurt them like thorns, and despise them" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metaphor]])

# the house of Israel

The word "house" is a metonym for the family that lives in the house. In this case it refers to Israel's descendants. See how you translated this in [Ezekiel 3:1](../03/01.md). AT: "the Israelites" or "the Israelite people group" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metonymy]])

# translationWords

* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/plague]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/blood]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/slain]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/sword]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/lordyahweh]]