## translationWords

* [[en:tw:angel]]
* [[en:tw:angel|angel]]
* [[en:tw:bless]]
* [[en:tw:bless|bless, blessed, blessing]]
* [[en:tw:earth]]
* [[en:tw:earth|earth]]
* [[en:tw:exalt]]
* [[en:tw:exalt|exalt, exaltation]]
* [[en:tw:glory]]
* [[en:tw:glory|glory, glorious]]
* [[en:tw:god]]
* [[en:tw:god|God]]
* [[en:tw:heaven]]
* [[en:tw:heaven|heaven, sky, heavens, heavenly]]
* [[en:tw:levite]]
* [[en:tw:levite|Levite, Levi]]
* [[en:tw:life]]
* [[en:tw:life|life, live, living, alive]]
* [[en:tw:name]]
* [[en:tw:name|name]]
* [[en:tw:praise]]
* [[en:tw:praise|praise]]
* [[en:tw:worship]]
* [[en:tw:worship|worship]]
* [[en:tw:yahweh]]
* [[en:tw:yahweh|Yahweh]]

## translationNotes

* **Then the Levites...said, 'Stand up'** - Here the Levites are speaking to the people of Israel.
* **give praise to Yahweh** - "bless Yahweh"
* **Jeshua, and Kadmiel, Bani, Hashabneiah, Sherebiah, Hodiah, Shebaniah, and Pethahiah** - These are names of people. (See: [[en:ta:vol1:translate:translate_names]])
* **forever and ever** - This is an emphatic way of saying "for eternity" or "for all time." Israel is encouraged to praise Yahweh even after time ends. Here two words joined by "and" express a single idea. (See: [[en:ta:vol2:translate:figs_hendiadys]])
* **May they bless your glorious name** - Here the Levites are speaking to Yahweh.  The word "they" refers to the people of Israel, and "your" refers to Yahweh.
* **You made the sky** - "You created the sky"
* **heaven, the highest heavens** - This is an emphatic way of saying "the entire universe" or "the sky and everything beyond it."
* **with all their angels arrayed for war** - This expression could refer to all the stars in the heavens or to the angels. It refers to everything in the universe. AT : "with all their host," or "with all their multitudes," or "everything in the heavens"
* **the angel armies of heaven** - AT: "the host of heaven" or "the multitudes of heaven." This could refer to the stars and planets or to the angels.
