# Connecting Statement:

Paul then explains how believers are to settle disagreements with other believers.

# dispute

disagreement or argument

# does he dare to go ... believers?

Paul is emphasizing that Christians must resolve disagreements among themselves. AT: "he should not dare to go ... believers!" or "he should be fear God and not go ... believers!" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-rquestion]])

# civil court

where a local government judge considers cases and decides who is right

# Do you not know that the believers will judge the world?

Paul is shaming the Corinthians for acting like they do not know. (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-rquestion]])

# If then, you will judge the world, are you not able to settle matters of little importance?

Because they will be given greater responsibility later, they should be responsible for lesser things now. AT: "you will judge the world in the future, so you should be able to settle this matter now." (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-rquestion]])

# judge matters of this life

"stop arguments about things that have to do with this life"

# Do you not know that we will judge the angels?

Paul is surprised that they do not seem to know. AT: "You know that we will judge the angels." (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-rquestion]])

# we

Paul includes himself and the Corinthians. (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-inclusive]])

# How much more, then, can we judge matters of this life?

Because they will be given greater responsibility later, they should be responsible for lesser things now. AT: "Because we know we will judge the angels, we can also be sure that God will enable us to judge matters in this life." (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-rquestion]])

# translationWords

* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/believe]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/judge]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/believer]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/know]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/world]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/angel]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/life]]