# Do you not know that

Paul emphasizes that they should already know this truth. AT: "You already know that" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-rquestion]])

# inherit

Receiving what God has promised believers is spoken of as if it were inheriting property and wealth from a family member. (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metaphor]])

# inherit the kingdom of God

God will not judge them as righteous at the judgment, and they will not enter eternal life.

# male prostitutes, those who practice homosexuality

Possible meanings are 1) this is a merism for all homosexual activity or 2) Paul is naming two different activities. (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-merism]])

# male prostitutes

Possible meanings are 1) men who allow other men to sleep with them or 2) men who allow men who pay them to sleep with them or 3) men who allow other men to sleep with them as part of a religious activity.

# those who practice homosexuality

men who sleep with other men

# thieves

"people who steal from others" or "robbers"

# the greedy

people who are willing to use evil means to take others' property

# swindlers

"cheaters" or "those who steal from others who trust in them"

# you have been cleansed

This can be stated in active form. AT: "God has cleansed you" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-activepassive]])

# you have been sanctified

This can be stated in active form. AT: "God has set you apart for himself" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-activepassive]])

# you have been made right with God

This can be stated in active form. AT: "God has made you right with him" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-activepassive]])

# in the name of the Lord Jesus Christ

"Name" here is a metonym for the person of Jesus Christ. AT: "by means of our Lord Jesus Christ" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metonomy]])

# translationWords

* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/know]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/righteous]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/inherit]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/kingdomofgod]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/fornication]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/falsegod]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/adultery]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/prostitute]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/drunk]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/slander]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/clean]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/sanctify]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/name]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/lord]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/jesus]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/holyspirit]]