# following the words of Yahweh

This phrase shows that the king gave his command in obedience to the word of Yahweh. AT: "in obedience to the word of Yahweh" or "because of what Yahweh had said"

# to cleanse the house of Yahweh

A place that is fit to be used for God's purposes is spoken of as if it were physically clean. (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metaphor]])

# the house of Yahweh ... the courtyard of the house

Here the word "house" represents the temple. AT: "the temple of Yahweh ... the courtyard of the temple" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metonymy]])

# they brought out all the filth that they found in the temple of Yahweh

The word "filth" refers to things that the people had used to worship other gods. The narrator speaks of these things making the temple unacceptable to Yahweh as if they were physically dirty. AT: "they brought out all the defiled things that they found in the temple of Yahweh" or "they brought out all the things that they found in the temple of Yahweh that made it unacceptable to Yahweh" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metaphor]])

# brook Kidron

A small body of water that flows on the east side of Jerusalem. At times it was used as a trash dump. (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/translate-names]])

# the first day of the first month

This is the first month of the Hebrew calendar. The first day marks the day when Yahweh brought the people out of Egypt. This is near the middle of March on Western calendars. (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/translate-hebrewmonths]] and [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/translate-ordinal]])

# the eighth day of the month

This is near the end of March on Western calendars. (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/translate-hebrewmonths]] and [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/translate-ordinal]])

# they reached the porch of Yahweh

The phrase "the porch of Yahweh" refers to the porch of the temple. "They reached" means that they began to cleanse this section. AT: "they had begun to cleanse the porch of Yahweh's temple" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metonymy]] and [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-idiom]])

# sixteenth day of the first month

This is near the beginning of April on Western calendars. (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/translate-hebrewmonths]] and [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/translate-ordinal]])

# translationWords

* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/brother]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/consecrate]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/command]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/wordofgod]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/clean]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/houseofgod]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/temple]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/courtyard]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/biblicaltimeday]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/consecrate]]