## translationWords

* [[en:tw:bond]]
* [[en:tw:children]]
* [[en:tw:goodnews]]
* [[en:tw:heart]]
* [[en:tw:profit]]

## translationNotes

* **Onesimus** - This is the name of a man. (See: [[en:ta:vol1:translate:translate_names]])
* **my child Onesimus** - "my son Onesimus." Paul compared his close relationship with Onesimus to the relationship that a father and his son have. Onesimus was not Paul's actual son, but he received spiritual life when Paul taught him about Jesus, and Paul loved him. This can be translated as “my dear son Onesimus” or "my spiritual son Onesimus." (See: [[en:ta:vol1:translate:figs_metaphor]])
* **whom I have fathered** - This can be translated as "who became a son to me" or "who became like a son to me." How Onesimus became like a son to Paul can be made explicit: "who became my spiritual son when I taught him about Christ and he received new life." (See: [[en:ta:vol1:translate:figs_explicit]])
* **in my bonds** - "in my chains." This can be translated as "while being in prison." Prisoners were often bound in chains. Paul was in prison when he taught Onesimus, and he was still in prison when he wrote this letter. (See: [[en:ta:vol2:translate:figs_metonymy]])
* **who once was unprofitable** - This could be translated as a new sentence: "Before he was useless."
* **but now is profitable** - "but now he is is useful." Translators may also add a footnote that says "The name Onesimus means 'profitable' or 'useful'."
* **I have sent him, himself, back to you** - "I have sent Onesimus back to you". Since Paul was probably writing the letter just before sending Onesimus, it could also be translated as "I am sending him back to you" (UDB).
* **him who is my very heart** - Here the word "heart" is used for someone who is dearly loved. This phrase could be translated as "whom I love dearly." Paul was saying this about Onesimus. (See: [[en:ta:vol2:translate:figs_metonymy]])
* **whom I would rather have kept with me** - This could be translated as a new sentence: "I would rather have kept him with me."
* **that on your behalf he might help me** - "that, since you cannot be here, he might help me." It could also be translated as a separate sentence: He would be helping me in your place."
* **who am in chains** - This can also be translated as "while I am in prison" or "because I am in prison."
* **for the gospel** - This can be translated here as "because I preach the gospel."
