# I have seen this people

Here Yahweh compares knowing the people to seeing them. AT: "I know this people" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metaphor]])

# a stiff-necked people

Yahweh speaks of the people being stubborn as if they had stiff necks. AT: "a stubborn people" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metaphor]])

# Now then

The word "now" is used here to mark a break in what Yahweh was telling Moses. Here Yahweh tells what he will do to the people.

# My anger will burn hot against them

Yahweh speaks of his anger as if it were a fire that could burn hot. AT: "My anger towards them will be terrible" or "I am extremely angry with them" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metaphor]])

# from you

The word "you" refers to Moses. (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-you]])

# why does your anger burn against your people ... a mighty hand?

Moses used this question to to try to persuade Yahweh not to be so angry with his people. This rhetorical question can be translated as a statement. AT: "Do not let your anger burn against your people ... a mighty hand." or "Do not be so angry with your people ... a mighty hand." (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metaphor]] and [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-rquestion]])

# great power ... mighty hand

These two phrases share similar meanings and are combined for emphasis. (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-doublet]])

# a mighty hand

Here the word "hand" refers to the things Yahweh did. AT: "and the powerful things you did" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metonymy]])