# General Information:

The author begins with Jesus' genealogy in order to show that he is a descendant of King David and of Abraham. The genealogy continues through [Matthew 1:17](./15.md).

# The book of the genealogy of Jesus Christ

You could translate this as a complete sentence. AT: "This is the list of the ancestors of Jesus Christ."

# Jesus Christ, son of David, son of Abraham

There were many generations between Jesus, David, and Abraham. Here "son" means "descendant." AT: "Jesus Christ, a descendant of David, who was a descendant of Abraham"

# son of David

Sometimes the phrase "son of David" is used as a title, but here it seems to be used only to identify Jesus' ancestry.

# Abraham was the father of Isaac

"Abraham became the father of Isaac" or "Abraham had a son Isaac" or "Abraham had a son named Isaac." There are different ways you could translate this. Whichever way you translate it here, it would be best to translate it the same way throughout the list of Jesus' ancestors.

# Isaac the father ... Jacob the father

Here the word "was" is understood. AT: "Isaac was the father ... Jacob was the father" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-ellipsis]])

# Perez ... Zerah ... Hezron ... Ram

These are names of men. (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/translate-names]])

# Perez the father ... Hezron the father

Here the word "was" is understood. AT: "Perez was the father ... Hezron was the father" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-ellipsis]])

# translationWords

* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/jesus]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/son]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/names/david]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/names/abraham]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/names/isaac]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/names/jacob]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/names/judah]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/names/tamar]]
