# It came about at that time

This phrase marks the beginning of a new part of the story. If your language has a way for doing this, you could consider using it here. (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/writing-newevent]])

# Phicol

This is the name of a man. (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/translate-names]])

# captain of his army

"commander of his army"

# his army

The word "his" refers to Abimelech.

# God is with you in all that you do

Here the phrase "is with you" is an idiom that means God helps or blesses Abraham. AT: "God blesses everything you do" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-idiom]])

# Now therefore

The word "Now" does not mean "at this moment," but is used to draw attention to the important point that follows. AT: "Therefore" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-explicit]])

# swear to me here by God

This is an idiom meaning to make a solemn oath witnessed by a higher authority, in this instance, God. AT: "promise me with God as your witness" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-idiom]])

# that you will not deal falsely with me

"that you will not lie to me"

# will not deal falsely ... with my descendants

This can be stated in positive form. AT: "will deal honestly with me and my descendants" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-doublenegatives]])

# Show to me ... covenant faithfulness that I have shown to you

The two men had made a covenant with each other. The abstract noun "faithfulness" can be stated as "faithful" or "loyal." AT: "Be as faithful to me and to the land as I have been to you" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-abstractnouns]])

# to the land

Here "land" stands for the people. AT: "to the people of the land" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metonymy]])

# I swear

This can be stated with the understood information. AT: "I swear to be as faithful to you and your people as you have been to me" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-ellipsis]])

# translationWords

* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/names/abimelech]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/names/abraham]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/oath]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/descendant]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/covenantfaith]]