# Delilah saw

Here the word "saw" is a idiom that means to realize something. AT: "Delilah realized" or "Delilah learned" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-idiom]])

# the truth about everything

Here the word "everything" refers to everything about why Samson was strong. AT: "the truth about why he is strong" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-explicit]])

# Come up again

Delilah is telling the rulers to come again to where she lives. Her home is likely at a higher elevation than where the rulers would be travelling from.

# bringing the silver in their hands

This means that they brought to her the silver that they had promised to give her if she helped them capture Samson. AT: "bringing the silver that they had promised to give her" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-explicit]])

# She had him fall asleep

"She caused him to fall asleep"

# in her lap

This means that he slept with his head on her lap. This can be stated clearly. AT: "with his head on her lap" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-explicit]])

# lap

The lap is the level area of the upper legs when a person is sitting down.

# the seven locks of his head

Samson had seven locks of hair on his head. Locks are small bunches of hair. Here his locks of hair are described as "belonging" to his head. AT: "the seven locks of hair on his head" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-possession]])

# subdue him

"control him"

# his strength had left him

Here Samson's strength is described as if it were a person who could leave him. AT: "his strength was gone" or "he was no longer strong" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-personification]])

# translationWords

* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/names/delilah]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/true]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/ruler]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/names/philistines]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/silver]]