# The Philistines are upon you

The phrase "upon you" means that they are ready to capture him. AT: "The Philistines are here to capture you" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-idiom]])

# woke up

"awakened"

# get out

"escape"

# But he did not know that Yahweh had left him

It is implied that if Yahweh left Samson, he would no longer be strong. AT: "But he did not know that Yahweh had left him and that he would not be strong enough to defeat the Philistines" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-explicit]])

# put out his eyes

This means that they removed his eyes from his head. AT: "removed his eyes" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-idiom]])

# down to Gaza

The phrase "down to" is used here because they brought Samson to Gaza which is lower in elevation than his home where they captured him.

# bound him with bronze shackles

"chained him with bronze shackles" or "tied him up using bronze shackles"

# shackles

locks on the end of chains that hold a prisoner at his feet or hands, or both

# turned the millstone

"pulled the millstone around in a circle"

# millstone

This is a very large, heavy, circular stone. Normally, a large animal pulls the millstone around in a circle to crush grain. Here the Philistines humiliate Samson by making him pull it.

# after it had been shaved

This can be stated in active form. AT: "after the Philistines had shaved it" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-activepassive]])

# translationWords

* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/philistines]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/samson]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/free]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/yahweh]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/gaza]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/bronze]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/prison]]