# General Information:

God continues speaking to Moses.

# the God of your ancestors, the God of Abraham, of Isaac, and of Jacob

Abraham, Isaac and Jacob were three of Moses's ancestors. They all worshiped the same God.

# I have indeed observed you

The word "you" refers to the people of Israel.

# a land flowing with milk and honey

"a land where milk and honey flow." God spoke of the land being good for animals and plants as if the milk and honey from those animals and plants were flowing through the land. See how you translated this in [Exodus 3:8](./07.md). AT: "a land that is excellent for raising livestock and growing crops" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metaphor]] and [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metonymy]])

# flowing with

"full of" or "with an abundance of"

# milk

Since milk comes from cows and goats, this represents food produced by livestock. AT: "food from livestock" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metonymy]])

# honey

Since honey is produced from flowers, this represents food from crops. AT: "food from crops" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metonymy]])

# They will listen to you

The word "you" refers to Moses. AT: "The elders will listen to you"

# translationWords

* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/elder]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/israel]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/yahweh]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/canaan]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/hittite]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/amorite]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/perizzite]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/jebusites]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/pharaoh]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/hebrew]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/desert]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/sacrifice]]