# There was a man in Maon, whose possessions were in Carmel. The man was very wealthy. He had three thousand sheep and one thousand goats. He was shearing his sheep in Carmel. The man's name was Nabal, and the name of his wife was Abigail. The woman was intelligent and beautiful in appearance. But the man was harsh and evil in his dealings. He was a descendant of the house of Caleb.

Some translators may need to put the ideas in these verses in a different order. AT: "There was a man whose name was Nabal, a descendant of the house of Caleb, who was very wealthy. He lived in Maon, but his possessions were in Carmel. He had three thousand sheep and one thousand goats. The man was harsh and evil in his dealings. The name of his wife was Abigail. The woman was intelligent and beautiful in appearance. Now he was shearing his sheep in Carmel." (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/translate-versebridge]])

# Maon

This is the name of a town. (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/translate-names]])

# Carmel

This is the name of a town. This is different from Mount Carmel. (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/translate-names]])

# three thousand

3,000 (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/translate-numbers]])

# one thousand

1,000 (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/translate-numbers]])

# shearing his sheep

"shaving the wool off his sheep"

# Nabal

This is the name of a man. (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/translate-names]])

# Abigail

This is the name of a woman. (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/translate-names]])

# He was a descendant of the house of Caleb

Here "house" represents family. AT: "He was a descendant of the family of Caleb" or "He was a descendant of Caleb" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metonymy]])

# translationWords

* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/possess]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/names/carmel]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/sheep]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/goat]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/name]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/evil]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/descendant]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/house]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/names/caleb]]