# General Information:

David offers to protect Abigail by marrying her.

# May Yahweh be blessed

This can be translated in active form. See how you translated this in [1 Samuel 25:32](../25/32.md). Possible meanings are 1) Alternate translation: "I praise Yahweh" or 2) Alternate translation: "May all people praise Yahweh" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-activepassive]])

# has taken up the cause of my insult from the hand of Nabal

This is an idiom. Alternate translation: "has defended me after Nabal insulted me" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-idiom]])

# has taken up the cause of my insult

The abstract nouns "cause" and "insult" can be translated as verbs. Possible meanings are 1) Alternate translation: "has shown that what I was doing was right by punishing Nabal for insulting me" or 2) Alternate translation: "has acted, when Nabal insulted me, as if Nabal had insulted him" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-activepassive]])

# has kept back his servant from evil

David speaks as if he were another person to show his respect for Yahweh. Alternate translation: "has kept me back from doing evil deeds" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-pronouns]])

# has turned Nabal's evil action back on his own head

The abstract noun "action" can be translated as a verb. Alternate translation: "has done to Nabal what Nabal planned to do to me" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-abstractnouns]])

# on his own head

The head is a synecdoche for the person. Alternate translation: "on him" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-synecdoche]])

# sent and spoke to Abigail, to take her to himself as wife

You may make clear the understood information. Alternate translation: "sent men to speak to Abigail and tell her that David wanted to take her to be his wife" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-ellipsis]])

