# Connecting Statement:

Paul talks about going Jerusalem but does not leave Ephesus yet.

# Now

This word is used here to mark a break in the main storyline. Here Luke starts to tell a new part of the story.

# Paul completed his ministry in Ephesus

"Paul completed the work that God had for him to do in Ephesus"

# he decided in the Spirit

Possible meanings are 1) Paul decided with the help of the Holy Spirit or 2) Paul decided within his own spirit, which means he made up his mind.

# Achaia

Achaia was the Roman province in which Corinth was located. It was the largest city in southern Greece and the capital of the province. See how you translated this in [Acts 18:12](../18/12.md).

# I must also see Rome

"I must also travel to Rome"

# Erastus

This is the name of a man. (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/translate-names]])

# But he himself stayed in Asia for a while

It is made explicit in the next few verses that Paul remains in Ephesus. (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-explicit]])

# he himself

This is repeated for emphasis. (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-rpronouns]])

# translationWords

* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/minister]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/ephesus]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/holyspirit]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/macedonia]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/jerusalem]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/rome]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/disciple]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/timothy]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/asia]]