# Connecting Statement:

Demetrius continues to speak to the craftsmen.

# You see and hear that

"You have come to know and understand that"

# turned away many people

Paul's stopping people from worshiping idols is spoken of as though Paul were literally turning the people in a different direction. AT: "caused many people to stop worshiping the local gods" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metaphor]])

# He is saying that there are no gods that are made with hands

Here the word "hands" can refer to the whole person. AT: He is saying that there are no gods that are made with the hands of people" or "He is saying that the idols that people make are not real gods" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-ellipsis]] and [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-synecdoche]])

# that our trade will no longer be needed

This can be stated in active form. AT: "that the people will no longer want to buy idols from us" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-activepassive]])

# the temple of the great goddess Artemis may be considered worthless

This can be stated in active form. AT: "the people will think there is no benefit in going to the temple to worship the great goddess Artemis" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-activepassive]])

# she would even lose her greatness

Artemis's greatness only comes from what people think of her.

# whom all Asia and the world worships

This was an exaggeration to show how popular the goddess Artemis was. Here the words "Asia" and "the world" refer to the people in Asia and the known world. AT: "whom many people in Asia and in other parts of the world worship" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-hyperbole]] and [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metonymy]])