# General Information:

Parallelism is common in Hebrew poetry. (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/writing-poetry]] and [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-parallelism]])

# For the chief musician

"This is for the director of music to use in worship."

# A psalm of the sons of Korah

"This is a psalm that the sons of Korah wrote"

# set to Alamoth

This may refer to a style of music. (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/translate-unknown]])

# God is our refuge and strength

The writer speaks of God as if he were a place where people can go for safety. AT: "God gives us safety and strength" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metaphor]])

# the mountains should be shaken into the heart of the seas

The writer speaks of the deepest part of the sea as if it were the sea's heart. Here he describes an earthquake that causes the mountains to crumble and fall into the sea. This can be stated in active form. AT: "the mountains should shake so violently that they fall into the depths of the sea" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metaphor]] and [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-activepassive]])

# though its waters roar and rage

"though the waters of the sea roar and rage." The words "roar" and "rage" describe the violent movements of the sea during a strong storm.

# mountains tremble with their swelling

The phrase "their swelling" refers to the waters of the sea as they rise and crash against the mountains. AT: "the swelling waters cause the mountains to tremble" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-explicit]])