# The nations raged

Here, the word "raged" is the same word that the writer used in [Psalms v. 3](./001.md) to describe the waters of the sea. The writer speaks of the fear of the nations as if it was the violent movements of the sea during a strong storm. AT: "The nations are terrified" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metaphor]])

# the kingdoms were shaken

Here, the word "shaken" is the same word that the writer used in [Psalms v. 2](./001.md) to describe the effect of an earthquake on the mountains. The writer speaks of the overthrow of kingdoms by armies as if an earthquake were to destroy them. This can be stated in active form. AT: "armies overthrew the kingdoms" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metaphor]] and [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-activepassive]])

# he lifted up his voice

"God lifted up his voice." The writer speaks of the "voice" as an object that a person can pick up and raise into the air. This means that the voice becomes louder. AT: "God shouted" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metaphor]])

# the earth melted

The writer speaks of the earth as an object, such as ice, that can melt. Here "the earth" represents mankind, and to melt represents fear. AT: "the people of the earth tremble with fear" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metonymy]] and [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metaphor]])

# the God of Jacob is our refuge

The writer speaks of God as if he were a place where people can go for safety. AT: "the God of Jacob gives us safety" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metaphor]])

# the God of Jacob

Possible meanings are 1) "the God whom Jacob worshiped" or 2) "Jacob" is a metonym for the nation of Israel and means "the God of Israel." (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metonymy]])