# Yahweh the God of Ahaz gave him into the hand of the king of Aram

Here the metonym "hand" represents power. God enabling the army of the king of Aram to defeat Ahaz and his army is spoken of as if God had put Ahaz in the hand of the king of Aram. AT: "Yahweh the God of Ahaz enabled the king of Aram to defeat Ahaz" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metonymy]] and [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metaphor]])

# carried away from him

"carried away from Ahaz." Here "him" represents Ahaz's army. AT: "carried away from Ahaz's army" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metonymy]])

# Ahaz was also given into the hand of the king of Israel who defeated him

Here the metonym "hand" represents power. God enabling the army of the king of Israel to defeat Ahaz and his army is spoken of as if God had put Ahaz in the hand of the king of Israel. This can be stated in active form. AT: "Yahweh also enabled the king of Israel to defeat Ahaz" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metonymy]] and [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metaphor]] and [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-activepassive]])

# Pekah son of Remaliah

This was the king of Israel. Both "Pekah" and "Remaliah" are the names of men. (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/translate-names]])

# 120,000 soldiers

"one hundred twenty thousand soldiers" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/translate-numbers]])

# translationWords

* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/ahaz]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/hand]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/aram]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/prison]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/damascus]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/slaughter]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/judah]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/forsaken]]