# General Information:

Here begins Part Three of the book. It begins with a description of sixty men carrying Solomon's bed up from the wilderness to Jerusalem.

# What is that coming up from the wilderness

The group of people is traveling from the wilderness to Jerusalem. They must go up in order to reach Jerusalem because the wilderness is low in the Jordan valley and Jerusalem is high in the mountains.

# What is that

Many versions translate this "Who is that."

# like a column of smoke

The dust looked like smoke from far away because the people raised much dust in the air as they traveled. (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-simile]])

# perfumed with myrrh and frankincense

"with the sweet smell of myrrh and frankincense"

# with all the powders sold by merchants

The words "perfumed with" are understood from the previous phrase. They can be repeated here. AT: "perfumed with all the powders sold by merchants" or "and with the sweet smell of all the powders that merchants sell" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-ellipsis]])

# powders

a fine dust made by crushing something solid

# Look

"Listen carefully" or "What I am about to say is important." You could use a word in your language that tells the hearer to listen carefully. The speaker now discovers the answer to the question in verse 6.

# it is the bed

This refers to a bed with a cover that can be carried from one place to another.

# sixty warriors surround it, sixty soldiers of Israel

These two phrases refer to the same sixty people. The second phrase clarifies that the "warriors" are "soldiers of Israel." (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-doublet]])

# warriors

men who fight

# translationWords

* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/desert]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/pillar]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/myrrh]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/frankincense]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/names/solomon]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/warrior]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/israel]]