# for me to give you victory over the Midianites

The word "victory" is an abstract noun that can be translated as a verb or an adjective. AT: "for me to allow you to defeat the Midianites" or "for me to cause you to be victorious over the Midianites" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-abstractnouns]])

# Our own power has saved us

Here "power" represents the people themselves. AT: "We have saved ourselves without God's help" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metonymy]])

# Now

This does not mean "at this moment," but is used to draw attention to the important point that follows.

# proclaim in the ears of the people

Here "the ears" refers to the whole person. AT: "proclaim to the people" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-synecdoche]])

# Whoever is afraid, whoever trembles

Both of these phrases have the same meaning. (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-parallelism]])

# trembles

This word describes fear that causes a person to uncontrollably shake. AT: "shakes with fear"

# let him return

You can make explicit where he will go. AT: "let him return to his home" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-explicit]])

# Mount Gilead

This is the name of a mountain in the region of Gilead. (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/translate-names]])

# twenty-two thousand

"22,000" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/translate-numbers]])

# ten thousand remained

The word "people" or "men" is understood. AT: "10,000 people remained" or "10,000 men remained" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-ellipsis]])

# ten thousand

"10,000" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/translate-numbers]])

# translationWords

* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/yahweh]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/names/gideon]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/names/midian]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/israel]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/boast]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/power]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/save]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/proclaim]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/names/gilead]]