# Gad ... attack him, but he

Here "Gad" stands for his descendants. AT: "The descendants of Gad ... attack them, but they" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metonymy]])

# Asher's food ... and he

Here "Asher" stands for his descendants. AT: "Asher's descendants' food ... and they" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metonymy]])

# Naphtali is ... he will

Here "Naphtali" stands for his descendants. AT: "The descendants of Naphtali are ... they will" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metonymy]])

# at their heels

Here "heels" stands for the raiders who are running away from the descendants of Gad. (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-synecdoche]])

# food will be rich

Here "rich" is a way of saying "delicious." (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-idiom]])

# Naphtali is a doe let loose

Jacob speaks about the descendants of Naphtali as if they were a female deer that is free to run. This may emphasize that they will be swift messengers. AT: "The descendants of Naphtali will be like deer set free" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metaphor]])

# have beautiful fawns

A "fawn" is a baby deer. The meaning of the Hebrew word is unclear. Some versions translate it as "have beautiful words" or "speak beautiful things" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metaphor]])

# translationWords

* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/gad]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/asher]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/royal]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/naphtali]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/deer]]