# General Information:

Jacob continues to bless Joseph and his descendants.

# his bow will remain steady

The person holding the bow steady is spoken of as if the bow itself will remain steady. It is implied he is holding it steady as he aims at his enemy. AT: "he will hold his bow steady as he aims at his enemy" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metonymy]] and [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-explicit]])

# his bow ... his hands

Here "his" refers to Joseph who stands for his descendants. AT: "their bow ... their hands" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metonymy]])

# his hands will be skillful

Here the whole person is represented by the "hands" since they are used to hold the bow. AT: "his arms will remain strong as he aims his bow" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-synecdoche]])

# the hands of the Mighty One

The "hands" are expressing the power of Yahweh. AT: "the power of the Mighty One" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metonymy]])

# because of the name of the Shepherd

Here "name" refers to the entire person. AT: "because of the Shepherd" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metonymy]])

# the Shepherd

Jacob speak of Yahweh as if he were a "Shepherd." This emphasizes that Yahweh guides and protects his people. (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metaphor]])

# the Rock

Jacob speaks of Yahweh as if he were a "Rock" that people can climb upon to find safety from enemies. This emphasizes that Yahweh protects his people. (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metaphor]])