# Connecting Statement:

The angels finish speaking to the women.

# but has been raised!

"but he has been made alive again!" This can be stated in active form. AT: "because God has made him alive again!" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-activepassive]])

"Raised is an idiom for "caused to live again," AT: "God has made him alive again," (See: rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-idiom)

# Remember how

"Remember what"

# to you

The word "you" is plural. It refers to the women and possibly the other disciples in addition. (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-you]])

# that the Son of Man

This is the beginning of an indirect quote. It can also be translated with a direct quote as in the UDB. (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-quotations]])

# the Son of Man must be delivered up into the hands of sinful men and be crucified

The phrase "must be" means this is something that would certainly happen because God had already decided that it would happen. AT: "it was necessary that they hand the Son of Man over to sinful men who would crucify him" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-activepassive]])

# into the hands

Here "hands" refers to power or control. (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metonymy]])

# third day

The Jews counted any portion of a day as a day. Therefore, the day Jesus was raised was the "third day" because it followed the day of his burial and the Sabbath day. (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/translate-ordinal]])

# translationWords

* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/raise]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/names/galilee]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/sonofman]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/hand]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/sin]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/crucify]]