# It happened

This phrase is used here to mark an important event in the story. If your language has a way for doing this, you could consider using it here.

# the bread

This refers to bread made without yeast. It does not refer to food in general.

# blessed it

"gave thanks for it" or "thanked God for it"

# Then their eyes were opened

Their "eyes" represent their understanding. This can be stated in active form. AT: "Then they understood" or "Then they realized" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metonymy]] and [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-activepassive]])

# they knew him

"they recognized him." These disciples had known him before his death.

# he vanished out of their sight

This means that suddenly he was no longer there. It does not mean that he became invisible.

# Was not our heart burning ... scriptures?

They use a question to emphasize how amazed they were about their encounter with Jesus. The intense feelings they had while talking to Jesus are spoken of as if they were a fire burning inside them. AT: "Our hearts were burning ... scriptures." (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metaphor]] and [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-rquestion]])

# within us

The two men were speaking to each other. The word "us" is dual inclusive for languages that make these distinctions. (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-pronouns]] and [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-inclusive]])

# while he opened to us the scriptures

Jesus did not open a book or scroll. "opened" refers to their understanding. AT: "while he explained the scriptures to us" or "while he enabled us to understand the scriptures"

# translationWords

* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/bread]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/bless]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/heart]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/wordofgod]]