# Then he opened their minds, that they might understand the scriptures

To "open the mind" is an idiom that means to enable someone to understand. AT: "Then he enabled them to understand the scriptures" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-idiom]])

# Thus it is written

This can be stated in active form. AT: "This is what people long ago wrote" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-activepassive]])

# rise again from the dead

In this verse, "to rise" is to come alive again. The words "from the dead" speak of all dead people together in the underworld.

# the third day

The Jews counted any portion of a day as a day. Therefore, the day Jesus was raised was the "third day" because it followed the day of his burial and the Sabbath day. See how you translated this in [Luke 24:7](./06.md). (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/translate-ordinal]])

# Repentance and forgiveness of sins should be preached in his name to all the nations

This can be stated in active form. AT: "Followers of the Christ should preach to people in all the nations that they need to repent and that they need God to forgive their sins through Jesus" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-activepassive]])

# in his name

His "name" here refers to his authority. AT: "by the Christ's authority" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metonymy]])

# all the nations

"all the ethnic communities" or "all the people groups"

# beginning from Jerusalem

"starting in Jerusalem"

# translationWords

* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/mind]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/understand]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/wordofgod]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/written]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/christ]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/suffer]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/raise]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/death]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/repent]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/forgive]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/sin]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/preach]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/name]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/nation]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/names/jerusalem]]