# Connecting Statement:

Paul finishes his instructions on prayer then gives some special instructions for women.

# I want men in every place to pray and to lift up holy hands

Here "holy hands" means the entire person is holy. AT: "I want men in every place who are holy to lift up their hands and pray" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metonymy]])

# men in every place

"the males in all places" or "the males everywhere." Here the word "men" refers specifically to males.

# lift up holy hands

It was a normal posture for people to raise their hands while praying.

# with modesty and self-control

Both of these words mean basically the same thing. Paul is emphasizing that women should wear clothes that are appropriate and do not attract improper attention from men. (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-doublet]])

# They should not have braided hair

During Paul's time, many Roman women braided their hair to make themselves attractive. Braiding is only one way a woman can give undue attention to her hair. If braided hair is unknown, it can be stated in a more general way. AT: "They should not have fancy hairstyles" or "They should not have elaborate hairstyle that attract attention" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metonymy]])

# pearls

These are beautiful and valuable white balls that people use as jewelry. They are formed inside the shell of a certain kind of small animal that lives in the ocean. (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/translate-unknown]])

# who profess godliness through good works

"who want to honor God by the good things they do"