# Adam was formed first

This can be stated in active form. AT: "Adam is the one God formed first" or "God created Adam first" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-activepassive]])

# then Eve

The understood information can be stated clearly. AT: "and then God formed Eve" or "then God created Eve" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-ellipsis]])

# Adam was not deceived

This can be stated in active form. AT: "And Adam was not the one whom the serpent deceived" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-activepassive]])

# but the woman was deceived and became a transgressor

This can be stated in active form. AT: "but it was the woman who disobeyed God when the serpent deceived her" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-activepassive]])

# she will be saved through bearing children

Here "she" refers to women in general. Possible meanings are 1) God will keep women physically safe as they give birth to children, or 2) God will save women from their sins through their role as child bearers.

# she will be saved

This can be stated in active form. AT: "God will save her" or "God will save women" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-activepassive]])

# if they continue

"if they remain" or "if they continue living." Here "they" refers to women.

# in faith and love and sanctification

The abstract nouns here can be translated with verbal phrases. AT: "in trusting Jesus and loving others and living a holy life" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-abstractnouns]])

# with soundness of mind

Possible meanings for this idiom are 1) "with good judgment," 2) "with modesty," or 3) "with self-control." (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-idiom]])

# soundness of mind

If the idiom is retained in translation, the abstract noun "soundness" can be translated with an adjective. AT: "a sound mind" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-abstractnouns]])

# translationWords

* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/adam]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/eve]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/deceive]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/transgression]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/faith]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/love]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/sanctify]]