# on the third day

The word "third" is an ordinal number. AT: "after the second day" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/translate-ordinal]])

# Do this and live

The understood information can be stated clearly. AT: "If you will do what I say, I will let you live" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-ellipsis]])

# fear God

This refers to deeply respecting God and showing that respect by obeying him.

# let one of your brothers be confined in this prison

This can be stated in active form. AT: "leave one of your brothers here in prison" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-activepassive]])

# but you go

Here "you" is plural and refers to all the brothers that will not stay in prison. AT: "but the rest of you go" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-you]])

# carry grain for the famine of your houses

Here "houses" stands for families. AT: "carry grain home to help your family during this famine" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metonymy]])

# so your words will be verified

This can be stated in active form. AT: "so I may know what you say is true" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-activepassive]])

# you will not die

This implies that Joseph would have his soldiers execute the brothers if he finds out they are spies. (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-explicit]])

# translationWords

* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/fear]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/god]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/prison]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/grain]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/famine]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/house]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/word]]