# Put him in my hands

This is a request for Reuben to take Joseph with him and to care for him on the journey. AT: "Put me in charge of him" or "Let me take care of him" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metaphor]])

# My son will not go down with you

It was common to use the phrase "go down" when speaking of traveling from Canaan to Egypt. AT: "My son, Benjamin, will not go with you to Egypt"

# with you

Here "you" is plural and refers to Jacob's older sons. (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-you]])

# For his brother is dead and he alone is left

The full meaning can be made explicit. AT: "For my wife, Rachel, only had two children. Joseph is dead and Benjamin is the only one left" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-explicit]])

# on the road in which you go

"while you a traveling to Egypt and back" or "while you are away." Here "road" stands for traveling.

# then you will bring down my gray hair with sorrow to Sheol

To "bring down ... to Sheol" is way of saying they will cause him to die and go to Sheol. He uses the word "down" because it was commonly believed sheol is somewhere underground. AT: "then you will cause me, an old man, to die of sorrow" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-idiom]])

# my gray hair

This stands for Jacob and emphasizes his old age. AT: "me, an old man" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-synecdoche]])

# translationWords

* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/names/reuben]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/names/benjamin]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/authority]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/names/jacob]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/hades]]