# General Information:

This chapter continues Job's speech, which started in [Job 12:1](../12/01.md). Job is speaking to God.

# Man, who is born of woman

This refers to all people, both men and women; all are born into this world. (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-gendernotations]])

# lives only a few days

This is an exaggeration to emphasize that people live only a short time. AT: "lives only a very short time" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-hyperbole]])

# is full of trouble

Being "full of trouble" represents experiencing much trouble. AT: "has many troubles" or "suffers much" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-explicit]])

# He sprouts from the ground like a flower and is cut down

Like the life of a flower, a person's life is short and is easily killed. (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-simile]])

# he flees like a shadow and does not last

A person's short life is compared to a shadow that disappears quickly. (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-simile]])

# Do you look at any of these?

Job implies that he does not want God to pay so much attention to him. AT: "You do not look at any of these." or "You do not pay so much attention to these. Please do not pay so much attention to me." (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-rquestion]])

# look at

Here looking at some one represents paying attention to him in order to judge him. AT: "pay attention to" or "look for faults in"

# Do you bring me into judgment with you?

Job uses this question to show his surprise that God judges him even though Job is so insignificant like the flowers. AT: "But you judge me." (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-rquestion]])