# General Information:

Yahweh tells Ezekiel to speak a prophecy. Ezekiel is to speak to Mount Seir, but the message is for all of the people of Edom.

# the word of Yahweh came

This is an idiom that is used to introduce something that God told his prophets or his people. See how you translated this in [Ezekiel 3:16](../03/16.md). AT: "Yahweh spoke this message" or "Yahweh spoke these words" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-idiom]])

# Son of man

"Son of a human being" or "Son of humanity." God calls Ezekiel this to emphasize that Ezekiel is only a human being. God is eternal and powerful, but humans are not. See how you translated this in [Ezekiel 2:1](../02/01.md). AT: "Mortal person" or "Human"

# set your face against Mount Seir

Mount Seir was far away, so Ezekiel could not see it, but Yahweh commands him to stare in that direction as a symbol of harming the people there. See how you translated a similar phrase in [Ezekiel 6:2](../06/01.md). AT: "turn toward Mount Seir and stare" or "stare toward Mount Seir so that the people there will be harmed" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/translate-symaction]])

# Mount Seir and prophesy against it

"the mountain of Seir." Yahweh tells Ezekiel to speak to Mount Seir as if it could hear him. The message is for all of the people of Edom. AT: "Mount Seir and prophesy against it because of what the people of Edom have done" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-personification]])

# to it

"to the mountain" or "to the people of Edom"

# Behold! I am against you, Mount Seir, and I will strike you with my hand and make you a desolation and a horror

Yahweh tells Ezekiel to speak to Mount Seir as if it could hear him. The message is for all of the people of Edom. AT: "Listen, Mount Seir, I will strike you with my hand and make you a desolation and a horror because of what your people did" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-personification]])

# Behold!

The word "Behold" here adds emphasis to what follows. AT: "Listen!" or "Indeed!"

# I am against you

"I am your enemy" or "I oppose you"

# I will strike you with my hand

Here "hand" represents power. AT: "I will use my power to strike you" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metonymy]])

# make you a desolation and a horror

The abstract nouns "desolation" and "horror" can be translated as adjectives." AT: "make you desolate and ruined" or "make you a desolate wasteland" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-abstractnouns]])

# translationWords

* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/wordofgod]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/sonofman]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/face]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/prophet]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/lordyahweh]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/hand]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/desolate]]