# General Information:

This continues the message that Ezekiel is to speak to Mount Seir. The message is for all the people of Edom.

# know that I am Yahweh

When Yahweh says that people will know that he is Yahweh, he is implying that they will know that he is the one true God who has supreme authority and power. See how you translated this in [Ezekiel 6:7](../06/06.md). AT: "understand that I am Yahweh, the one true God" or "realize that I, Yahweh, have supreme power and authority" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-explicit]])

# you poured them out into the hands of the sword

Possible meanings of this metaphor are 1) "you gave them over to their enemies who killed them with swords" or 2) "you killed them with swords." (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metaphor]])

# at the time of their distress

"at a time of disaster"

# as I live

"as surely as I am alive." Yahweh uses this expression to show that what he says next is certainly true. This is a way of making a solemn promise. See how you translated this in [Ezekiel 5:11](../05/11.md). AT: "I solemnly swear" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-idiom]])

# this is the Lord Yahweh's declaration

Yahweh speaks of himself by name to express the certainty of what he is declaring. See how you translated this in [Ezekiel 5:11](../05/11.md). AT: "this is what the Lord Yahweh has declared" or "this is what I, the Lord Yahweh, have declared" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-123person]])

# I will prepare you for bloodshed

Here "bloodshed" is a metonym for killing. AT: "I will make it easy for your enemies to kill many of you" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metonymy]])

# bloodshed will pursue you

Here "bloodshed" is a metonym for killing. Yahweh speaks of bloodshed as if it were a person who could chase them. AT: "your enemies will chase you down and kill you you" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-personification]])

# Since you did not hate bloodshed

Here "bloodshed" is a metonym for killing. AT: "Since you did not hate it when enemies brutally killed the people of Israel" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metonymy]])

# translationWords

* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/ruin]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/desolate]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/peopleofgod]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/israel]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/hand]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/sword]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/punish]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/declare]]