# General Information:

This continues the message that Ezekiel is to speak to Mount Seir. The message is for all the people of Edom.

# when I cut off from it anyone who passes through and returns again

Possible meanings are 1) "cut off" is a metaphor that means to destroy. AT: "I will destroy anyone who enters it or leaves it" or 2) "cut off" is a metaphor that means to stop someone from doing something. AT: "I will make it so that people do not travel back and forth through it" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metaphor]])

# those who were killed by the sword

Here "sword" represents enemies who fought them in battle. This can be stated in active form. See how you translated this in [Ezekiel 31:17](../31/17.md). AT: "those whom enemies have killed with swords" or "those who have died in battle" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-activepassive]] and [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metonymy]])

# a perpetual desolation

"desolate forever." This may be an exaggeration to emphasize the destruction. (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-hyperbole]])

# Your cities will not be inhabited

This can be stated in active form. This may be an exaggeration for emphasis. AT: "People will not live in your cities" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-activepassive]] and [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-hyperbole]])

# but you will know

Here "you" is plural. God is speaking to the people of Mount Seir, rather than to a single mountain. (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-you]])

# translationWords

* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/desolate]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/cutoff]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/yahweh]]