# General Information:

This continues the message that Ezekiel is to speak to Mount Seir. The message is for all the people of Edom.

# The Lord Yahweh says this

This can be stated in first person. AT: "This is what I, the Lord Yahweh, say" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-123person]])

# I will make you a desolation

Here "you" refers to Mount Seir, but the message is for the people of Edom. The abstract noun "desolation" can be stated as an adjective. AT: "Because of what your people did I will make you desolate" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-personification]] and [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-abstractnouns]])

# the entire earth rejoices

Here "earth" represents the people of the earth. The word "entire" is a generalization that refers only to people near Mount Seir. AT: "people who know that I have destroyed you rejoice" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metonymy]])

# As you rejoiced over the inheritance of the people of Israel because of its desolation

This speaks of the land that Yahweh gave to the Israelites as their inheritance. AT: "As you rejoiced when I made the land of the Israelites desolate" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metaphor]])

# I will do the same to you

Possible meanings are 1) I will make your land desolate" or 2) "I will rejoice when your land is desolate" or 3) "I will make other people rejoice because of your desolation."

# You will become a desolation, Mount Seir, and all of Edom

Yahweh continues telling Ezekiel to speak to Mount Seir as if it could hear him. The message is for the people of Edom. AT: "I will make you, Mount Seir, and all of Edom desolate" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-personification]])

# Then they will know

The word "they" possibly refers to 1) "the people of the earth" or 2) "the people of Israel and Judah."

# translationWords

* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/lordyahweh]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/desolate]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/rejoice]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/inherit]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/names/edom]]