# A letter from the prophet Elijah came to Jehoram

"Jehoram received a letter from the prophet Elijah" or "The prophet Elijah sent a letter to Jehoram"

# walked in the ways

This is an idiom that means he followed their example. See how you translated this in [2 Chronicles 20:32](../20/31.md). AT: "followed the example" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-idiom]])

# act like a prostitute

Jehoram caused the people to serve idols instead of Yahweh. People who serve other gods in order to receive something from them are spoken of as spiritual prostitutes. See how you translated a similar phrase in [2 Chronicles 21:11](./11.md). AT: "leave Yahweh and serve other gods, as a prostitute serves men who are not her husband" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metaphor]])

# the house of Ahab

The word "house" is a metonym for the family that lives in the house. In this case it refers to the descendants of Ahab. See how you translated this in [2 Chronicles 21:6](./06.md). AT: "the descendants of Ahab" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metonymy]])

# see

This tells Jehoram to pay attention to the message that follows.

# strike with a great plague

"cause a great plague to happen to"

# You yourself

The use of the reflexive "yourself" emphasizes that this is a personal judgment on Jehoram. (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-rpronouns]])

# until your intestines fall out because of the sickness

Possible meanings are 1) his intestines will literally fall out or 2) this is a metaphor that describes intestinal problems that will result in his death. AT: "until this disease causes your death" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metaphor]])