# Be fruitful, multiply, and fill the earth

This is God's blessing. He told Noah and his family to produce more humans like themselves, so that there would be many of them. The word "multiply" explains how they are to be "fruitful." See how you translated these commands in [Genesis 1:28](../01/28.md). (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-doublet]] and [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-idiom]])

# The fear of you and the dread of you will be upon every living animal ... and upon all the fish of the sea

The writer speaks of fear and dread as if they were physical objects that could be upon the animals. AT: "Every living animal ... and all the fish of the sea will be dreadfully afraid of you" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metaphor]])

# The fear of you and the dread of you

The words "fear" and "dread" mean basically the same thing and emphasize how afraid the animals will be of mankind. AT: "A dreadful fear of you" or "A terrible fear of you" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-doublet]])

# every living animal on the earth

This is the first of the four categories of animals that the writer lists, and not a summary of the rest of the animals that he mentions next.

# bird

This is a general term for things that fly. See how you translated this in [Genesis 1:21](../01/20.md).

# upon everything that goes low on the ground

This includes all types of small animals. See how you translated this in [Genesis 1:25](../01/24.md).

# They are given into your hand

The hand represents control. This can be made active. AT: "They are given into your control" or "I have put them under your control" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metonymy]] and [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-activepassive]])

# translationWords

* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/god]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/bless]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/noah]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/fear]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/hand]]