# General Information:

God continues speaking to Noah and his sons.

# But for your blood

This contrasts man's blood with the blood of animals ([Genesis 9:4](./01.md)).

# for your blood, the life that is in your blood

It is implied that the blood is shed, or poured out, or spilled out. AT: "if anyone causes your blood to pour out" or "if anyone spills your blood" or "if anyone kills you" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-explicit]] and [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metaphor]])

# life

This refers to physical life.

# I will require payment

This payment refers to the death of the murderer, not to money. AT: "I will require anyone who kills you to pay"

# from the hand

Here the word "hand" refers to the one who is responsible for something happening. (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-synecdoche]])

# From the hand of every animal I will require it

"I will require any animal that takes your life to pay"

# From the hand of any man, that is, from the hand of one who has murdered his brother, I will require an accounting for the life of that man

"I will require anyone who takes the life of another person to pay"

# From the hand of

This phrase refers to the person in a very personal way. AT: "From that very man" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-synecdoche]])

# brother

Here "brother" is used as a general reference to relatives, such as members of the same tribe, clan, or people group.

# Whoever sheds man's blood, by man will his blood be shed

The shedding of blood is a metaphor for killing someone. This means that if a person murders someone, someone else must kill the murderer. However, "blood" is very significant in this passage and should be used in the translation if possible. Translate "sheds blood" with words that indicate a major loss of blood that causes death. (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metaphor]])

# for it was in the image of God that he made man

"because God made people to be like him" or "because I made people in my own image"

# be fruitful and multiply

This is God's blessing. He told Noah and his family to produce more humans like themselves, so that there would be many of them. The word "multiply" explains how they are to be "fruitful." See how you translated this in [Genesis 1:28](../01/28.md). (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-doublet]] and [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-idiom]])

# translationWords

* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/blood]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/life]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/hand]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/brother]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/bloodshed]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/imageofgod]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/multiply]]