# The declaration of the word of Yahweh to Israel by the hand of Malachi

This can be expressed as a statement. "This is the declaration of the word of Yahweh to Israel by the hand of Malachi"

# Yahweh

This is the name of God that he revealed to his people in the Old Testament. See the translationWord page about Yahweh concerning how to translate this.

# by the hand of Malachi

The phrase "by the hand of" is an idiom that means that Yahweh used Malachi to deliver his message. AT: "through Malachi" or "spoken to them by Malachi" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-idiom]])

# How have you loved us?

This question indicates that the people doubt the truth of what God says. This can be expressed as a statement. AT: "You have not shown that you love us." (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-rquestion]])

# Was not Esau Jacob's brother?

This question, a reply of Yahweh reminding the people of their nation's history, may also be expressed as a statement. AT: "You know that Esau was Jacob's brother." (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-rquestion]])

# declares Yahweh

"Yahweh has solemnly said this"

# I have loved Jacob

Here "loved" implies a relationship of loyalty between Yahweh and Jacob, in which a covenant existed between them. This can be made explicit. AT: "as you know, I obligated myself with a covenant to love Jacob" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-explicit]])

# I have loved Jacob

This name "Jacob" refers here not only to Jacob, but also to all his descendants. (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-synecdoche]])

# Esau I have hated

Here "hated" implies that there was no covenant between Yahweh and Esau. However, it does not imply that Yahweh was emotionally against Esau.

# Esau I have hated

This name "Esau" refers here not only to Esau, but also to all his descendants. (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-synecdoche]])

# his mountains

This refers to the hill country of Edom.

# I have made his inheritance a place for the jackals of the wilderness

In the Old Testament, the presence of wild animals such as jackals was a frequent description of land deserted by the people who once lived there.

# his inheritance

Here "inheritance" stands for the region that Esau's descendants, the nation of Edom, occupied. (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metaphor]])

# translationWords

* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/wordofgod]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/yahweh]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/israel]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/hand]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/names/malachi]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/love]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/names/esau]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/names/jacob]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/inherit]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/desert]]