# General Information:

Yahweh rebukes the priests using an imaginary conversation in which the priests protest that they are doing right and Yahweh tells them what they are doing wrong.

# despise my name

Here "my name" stands for Yahweh himself. AT: "treat me as though you hate me" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metonymy]])

# How have we despised your name?

Here the priests are asking a question in order to state that they have not really despised Yahweh. This can be expressed as a statement. AT: "We have not really despised your name." or "Tell us how we have despised your name, because we do not think that we have done so." (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-rquestion]])

# polluted bread

Here "polluted" describes anything that is not suitable to sacrifice to God. (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metaphor]])

# How have we polluted you?

Here the priests are asking a question in order to state that they have not really polluted Yahweh. This can be expressed as a statement. AT: "We have not polluted you." or "Tell us how we have polluted you, because we do not think that we have done so." (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-rquestion]])

# polluted you

This expression refers to insulting God by giving him unsuitable sacrifices. (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metaphor]])

# table

This refers to an altar.

# By saying that Yahweh's table is contemptible.

This is the answer that Yahweh gives to the priests, but the full answer is only implied. This can be made explicit. AT: "You have polluted me by saying, 'Yahweh's table is contemptible.'" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-ellipsis]])

# contemptible

regarded as worthless

# translationWords

* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/father]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/servant]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/lord]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/yahwehofhosts]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/priest]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/name]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/altar]]