# the house of the king of Judah

"the palace of the king of Judah." The word "house" has a range of possible meanings. In this case it refers to the royal palace where the king lived.

# proclaim this word

"proclaim this message"

# listen to the word of Yahweh

"pay attention to the word of Yahweh"

# you who sit on David's throne

This refers to the king of Judah.

# sit on David's throne

The metonym "throne" refers to having authority as king, like David had. AT: "rule as king, like David before you" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metonymy]])

# your people who come through these gates

These gates are the gates of the king's palace. AT: "your people who come to visit the king" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-explicit]])

# Perform justice and righteousness

The abstract nouns "justice" and "righteousness can be stated as actions. AT: "Act fairly and justly" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-abstractnouns]])

# anyone who has been robbed—rescue him from the hand of the oppressor

"rescue anyone who has been robbed from the hand of the oppressor"

# the hand of the oppressor

Here "the hand" refers to power or control. AT: "the power of the oppressor" or "the one who would harm him" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metonymy]])

# Do not mistreat

"Do not treat badly"

# orphan

a child who does not have parents

# Do not ... pour out innocent blood

Here "pour out ... blood" is associated with murder, and "blood" refers to the murdered people. AT: "Do not ... murder innocent people" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-idiom]] and [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-synecdoche]])

# in this place

Possible meanings are 1) Jerusalem or 2) the whole country of Judah. This does not imply that it is good to murder people in other places.

# translationWords

* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/yahweh]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/king]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/kingdomofjudah]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/proclaim]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/wordofgod]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/david]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/throne]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/servant]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/gate]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/justice]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/righteous]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/hand]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/oppress]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/innocent]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/blood]]