# there is nothing in your eyes and heart except worry ... crushing of others

Here "eyes" is a metonym for seeing and "heart" is a metonym for thinking. AT: "you never look for or think about anything except ... crushing of others" or "you only look for and think about ways to cheat others and pour out innocent blood, and to oppress and crush others" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metonymy]])

# unjust profit

This is getting money by cheating or by using unfair means.

# pouring out innocent blood

Here "pouring out ... blood" is associated with murder, and "blood" refers to the murdered people. AT: "murdering innocent people" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-idiom]] and [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-synecdoche]])

# crushing of others

"doing violence to others in order to get money"

# They will not lament for him

In verse 18, Yahweh stops speaking directly to Jehoiakim and begins to speak to other people. Here "lament" refers to grieving at Jehoiakim's death. AT: "They will not lament for Jehoiakim when he dies" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-ellipsis]])

# Woe, my brother! ... Woe, my sister! ... Woe, master! ... Woe, majesty!

Yahweh uses the word "Woe" several times for emphasis. He addresses the various people who would normally show great sadness when someone dies. (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-parallelism]])

# He will be buried with a donkey's burial, dragged away and thrown out

The burial of Jehoiakim is spoken of as being the same as the manner in which people would bury a donkey. This can be stated in active form. AT: "They will bury his dead body the way they would bury a dead donkey; they will drag it away and throw it out" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metaphor]] and [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-activepassive]])

# translationWords

* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/heart]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/profit]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/innocent]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/blood]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/oppress]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/names/jehoiakim]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/king]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/names/judah]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/lament]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/lord]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/majesty]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/bury]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/donkey]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/gate]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/names/jerusalem]]