# The wind will shepherd away all your shepherds

This is a wordplay—Yahweh uses the idea of "shepherd" in two different ways. Here "shepherds" is a metaphor for the leaders of Jerusalem, and the wind "leads" them away. The wind represents Yahweh. AT: "I will take your leaders away as if the wind had blown them away" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metaphor]])

# go into captivity

"become captives" or "go into exile"

# You who live in 'Lebanon,' who is nestled in cedar buildings

Yahweh speaks of the royal palace as "Lebanon" and "cedar buildings" because it was constructed with a lot of cedar. AT: "You who live in a palace made from the cedars of Lebanon" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metaphor]])

# You who live

This "You" is singular and refers to the king. (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-you]])

# how you will be pitied

The meaning of the Hebrew is not clear. This can be stated in active form. Possible meanings are 1) "they will greatly pity you" or 2) "you will groan greatly." (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-activepassive]])

# when the labor pains come upon you, pain like that of a woman in labor

The pain that the king will feel when his enemies defeat him will be as intense as the pain a woman feels in childbirth. AT: "when you experience pain as intense as the pain of a woman in childbirth" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-simile]])

# translationWords

* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/shepherd]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/captive]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/shame]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/evil]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/works]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/life]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/laborpains]]