# As I live

"As surely as I am alive." Yahweh uses this expression to show that what he says next is certainly true. This is a way of making a solemn promise. AT: "I solemnly swear" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-idiom]])

# this is Yahweh's declaration

Yahweh speaks of himself by name to express the certainty of what he is declaring. See how you translated this in [Jeremiah 1:8](../01/07.md). AT: "this is what Yahweh has declared" or "this is what I, Yahweh, have declared" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-123person]])

# even if you ... were the signet on my right hand

Yahweh speaks to Jehoiachin as if it were possible for him to be the ring on Yahweh's hand. (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-hypo]])

# the signet on my right hand

A signet ring was used by a king to place his seal of authority on documents. The signet ring therefore represents authority to rule. The right hand also represents authority to rule. AT: "the signet ring on my right hand that represented my authority to be king" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metonymy]])

# I would tear you off

"I would tear you off from my hand" or "I would quickly pull you off of my hand"

# I have given you to the hand of the ones seeking your life

This can be stated in active form. AT: "I have made it possible for the ones seeking your life to capture you" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-activepassive]])

# to the hand of

Here the metonym "hand" represents power and control. (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metonymy]])

# seeking your life

This phrase represents wanting or trying to kill someone. See how this phrase is translated in [Jeremiah 11:21](../11/21.md). AT: "trying to kill you" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metaphor]])