# General Information:

A father teaches his child using poetry. (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-parallelism]])

# if you receive my words

"if you listen to what I am teaching you"

# if you receive

This begins a series of conditional statements that concludes in 2:5. If it is more natural for your language, you can translate these conditional statements as commands as in the UDB.

# treasure up my commandments with you

Valuing what is commanded is spoken of as if the commandments were a treasure and the person were a safe place to store the treasure. AT: "consider my commands to be as valuable as a treasure" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metaphor]])

# make your ears pay attention to wisdom and incline your heart to understanding

If you translated 2:1 as a command, you can translate 2:2 as a command, as in the UDB. Or, if you translated 2:1 as a conditional statement, you could translate 2:2 as a conditional statement also. AT: "if you make your ears pay attention to wisdom and incline your heart to understanding" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-imperative]])

# make your ears pay attention

This is an idiom. AT: "force yourself to listen carefully" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-idiom]])

# to wisdom

This abstract noun can be stated as an adjective. AT: "to the wise things I am teaching you" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-abstractnouns]])

# incline your heart to understanding

Here "heart" represents a person's mind. The phrase "incline your heart" is an idiom that means to commit or fully dedicate one's mind to a task. AT: "try hard to understand what is wise" or "fully dedicate yourself to understanding wise teachings" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metonymy]] and [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-idiom]])