# If you cry out for understanding and raise your voice for it

Both of these statements have the same meaning. It is implied that the person is strongly asking Yahweh for understanding. AT: "If you urgently ask God and plead for understanding" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-parallelism]] and [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-explicit]])

# If you cry ... if you seek

This continues the series of conditional statements started in [Proverbs 2:1](./01.md). If you translated the statements in 1:1-2 as commands, you should translate these as commands also as in the UDB.

# raise your voice

This is an idiom that means to speak loudly or to shout. (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-idiom]])

# if you seek it like you would seek silver and search for understanding as you would seek hidden treasures

Both statements have the same meaning. These similes emphasize the great effort a person should make to understand what is wise. AT: "if you seek understanding with as much effort as you search for a valuable object" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-parallelism]] and [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-simile]])

# you seek it ... search for understanding

Trying very hard to understand what is wise is spoken of as if understanding were an object for which a person must search. (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metaphor]])

# you will find the knowledge of God

To succeed in knowing God is spoken of as if the knowledge of God were an object that a person finds after searching. (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metaphor]])

# translationWords

* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/cry]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/understand]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/voice]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/seek]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/silver]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/fear]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/yahweh]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/god]]