# General Information:

A new poem begins. See [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/writing-poetry]] and [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-parallelism]] and [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metaphor]].

# Remember, Yahweh, what has happened to us

"Remember" here is an idiom. AT: "Yahweh, think about what has happened to us" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-idiom]])

# look and see our disgrace

"look at the shameful state we are in"

# Our inheritance has been turned over to strangers; our houses to foreigners

The idea of things being turned over to others can be expressed with an active form. Since it is also understood in the second part of the sentence, those words can be repeated there. AT: "You have turned our inheritance over to strangers; you have turned our houses over to strangers" or "You have allowed strangers to take possession of our inheritance; you have allowed foreigners to take possession of our houses" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-activepassive]] and [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-ellipsis]])

# We have become orphans ... our mothers are like widows

The people of Jerusalem have no one to protect them because the men have either died in battle or have gone into exile. This speaks of the people not having their fathers and husbands present as if they had actually become orphans and widows. (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metaphor]] and [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-simile]])

# orphans, the fatherless

These two phrases have the same meaning and emphasize that the people no longer have their fathers. AT: "orphans who have no fathers" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-parallelism]])

# We must pay silver for the water we drink ... our own wood

This means that their enemies are making them pay money to have the water and wood that they once used for free. AT: "We have to pay silver to our enemies in order to drink our own water ... our own wood" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-explicit]])

# we must pay silver to get our own wood

This can be stated in active form. AT: "our enemies sell us our own wood" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-activepassive]])

# translationWords

* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/yahweh]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/inherit]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/foreigner]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/silver]]