# sit upon your throne

Here sitting on the throne represents ruling as king. AT: "rule as king" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metonymy]])

# from generation to generation

This is an idiom. AT: "always" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-idiom]])

# Why do you forget us forever? Why do you forsake us for so many days?

The author uses these rhetorical questions to express his feelings that Yahweh has forgotten them. These questions can be written as a statement. AT: "It is as though you will forget us forever or not come back to us for a very long time!" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-rquestion]])

# Restore us to yourself

"Bring us back to yourself"

# Renew our days as they were long ago

Here "days" represents their lives. AT: "Make our lives good, like they used to be" or "Make us as great as we used to be" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metonymy]])

# unless you have utterly rejected us and you are angry with us beyond measure

Possible meanings are 1) that the writer is afraid that Yahweh might be too angry to restore them or 2) that he is saying that Yahweh is too angry to restore them.

# are angry with us beyond measure

This speaks of Yahweh being very angry as if his anger cannot be measured. This is an exaggeration. AT: "are extremely angry with us" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-hypo]])

# translationWords

* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/yahweh]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/reign]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/forever]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/throne]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/generation]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/forsaken]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/restore]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/reject]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/angry]]