# are most high above all

The psalmist speaks as if those who were strong enough to rule were the physically higher than others. AT: "rule over all the people who live on" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metaphor]] and [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metonymy]])

# You are exalted far

The psalmist speaks as if those who were strong enough to rule were the physically higher than others. AT: "You are high, far" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metaphor]])

# he takes them out of the hand of the wicked

Here the word "hand" represents power. Yahweh rescuing people from the power of wicked people is spoken of as if he took them out of their hands. AT: "he rescues them from the power of the wicked" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metonymy]] and [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metaphor]])

# Light is sown for ... and gladness for

These two phrases have similar meanings and are used together for emphasis. AT: "Yahweh sows light for those who do right, and he sows gladness for those with honest hearts" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-parallelism]] and [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-activepassive]] and [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-ellipsis]])

# Light is sown for the righteous

The word "sown" is a metaphor for actions with future results. "Light" is a metaphor for good things. AT: "Yahweh plans for good things to happen to the righteous in the future" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metaphor]])

# the righteous

The adjective "righteous" can be translated as a noun phrase. AT: "righteous people" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-nominaladj]])

# gladness for those with honest hearts

The words "is sown" are understood. The word "sown" is a metaphor for actions with future results. The abstract noun "gladness" can be stated as "happy." AT: "gladness is sown for those with honest hearts" or "Yahweh plans for people with honest hearts to be happy in the future" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-ellipsis]] and [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metaphor]] and [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-abstractnouns]])

# those with honest hearts

The heart is a synecdoche for the whole person. AT: "honest people" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-synecdoche]])