# General Information:

The angel continues to speak with Zechariah.

# This is the curse

The word "this" refers to the scroll. The scroll is a metonym for what is written on the scroll. AT: "On this scroll is the curse" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metonymy]])

# that goes out over the surface of the whole land

The phrase "the surface of the whole land" refers to every place within the land. It is implied that the curse will apply to every person who lives in the land. AT: "that is upon every person within the whole land" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-idiom]] and [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-explicit]])

# every thief will be cut off ... everyone who swears a false oath will be cut off

Yahweh removing these people from the land is spoken of as if he were cutting them off, like a person would cut a branch from a tree. This can be stated in active form. AT: "Yahweh will cut off every thief ... Yahweh will cut off everyone who swears a false oath" or "Yahweh will remove every thief from the land ... Yahweh will remove from the land everyone who swears a false oath" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metaphor]] and [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-activepassive]])

# what it says on the one side ... what it says on the other side

"what the scroll says on one side ... what the scroll says on the other side"

# I will send it out

"I will send out the curse"

# this is the declaration of Yahweh of hosts

Yahweh speaks of himself by name to express the certainty of what he is declaring. See how you translated this in [Zechariah 1:3](../01/01.md). AT: "this is what Yahweh of hosts has declared" or "this is what I, Yahweh of hosts, have declared" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-123person]])

# consume its timber and stones

The curse destroying the houses of the thief and of the one who swears falsely is spoken of as if the curse would consume the building materials that people had used to build the houses. AT: "destroy its wood and stones" or "completely destroy it" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metaphor]] and [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-synecdoche]])