# Connecting Statement:

The angel who speaks with Zechariah continues to explain the vision.

# Not by might nor by power

Since there is no verb in this phrase, it may be necessary in your language to supply one. AT: "You will not succeed by might nor by power" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-explicit]])

# Not by might nor by power

Possible meanings are 1) that the words "might" and "power" mean basically the same thing and emphasize the greatness of Zerubbabel's strength or 2) that the word "might" refers to military strength and the word "power" refers to Zerubbabel's physical ability. AT: "Certainly not by your own strength" or "Not by military strength nor by your own power" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-doublet]])

# What are you, great mountain? Before Zerubbabel you will become a plain

This is a metaphor in which Yahweh speaks of the obstacles that Zerubbabel will face as if they were a large mountain. He asks this rhetorical question to emphasize that these obstacles pose no threat to Zerubbabel's success. The question can be translated as a statement. AT: "You are nothing, great mountain! Zerubbabel will cause you to become a plain" or "Although obstacles may appear as large as mountains, Zerubbabel will overcome them as easily as one walks upon level ground" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metaphor]] and [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-rquestion]])

# he will bring out the top stone

The top stone is the last stone placed when building something. This refers to the top stone of the temple. AT: "he will bring out the top stone of the temple" or "he will complete the construction of the temple" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-explicit]])

# to shouts of 'Grace! Grace to it!'

Possible meanings are 1) the word "grace" refers to God's grace and the people are requesting that God bless the completed temple. AT: "while people shout, 'May God bless it! May God bless it!'" or 2) the word "grace" refers to beauty and the people are declaring how beautiful the completed temple is. AT: "while people shout, 'Beautiful! It is beautiful!'" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-explicit]])

# translationWords

* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/zerubbabel]]