# But the righteousness that comes from faith says this

Here "righteousness" is described as a person who can speak. AT: "But Moses writes this about how faith makes a person right before God" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-personification]])

# Do not say in your heart

Moses was addressing the people as if he were speaking to only one person. AT: "Do not say to yourself" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-you]])

# Who will ascend into heaven?

Moses uses a question to teach his audience. His previous instruction of, "Do not say" requires a negative answer to this question. You can translate this question as a statement. AT: "No one is able to go up to heaven" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-rquestion]])

# that is, to bring Christ down

"in order that they might have Christ come down to earth"

# Who will descend into the abyss

Moses uses a question to teach his audience. His previous instruction of, "Do not say" requires a negative answer to this question. You can translate this as a statement. AT: "No person can go down and enter the place where the spirits of dead persons are" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-rquestion]])

# that is, to bring Christ up from the dead ones

"in order that they might bring Christ back from the dead"

# dead

Here "dead" means physical death.

# translationWords

* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/righteous]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/faith]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/heart]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/heaven]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/christ]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/abyss]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/death]]