# But what does it say?

The word "it" refers to "the righteousness" of [Romans 10:6](./06.md). Here Paul describes "righteousness" as a person who can speak. Paul uses a question to emphasize the answer he is about to give. AT: "But this is what Moses says" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-personification]] and [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-rquestion]])

# The word is near you

Paul speaks of God's "message" as if it were a person who can move. AT: "The message is right here" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-personification]])

# in your mouth

The word "mouth" is a synecdoche that refers to what a person says. AT: "it is in what you say" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-synecdoche]])

# in your heart

The phrase "in your heart" is an idiom that refers to what a person thinks and believes. AT: "it is in what you think and believe" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-idiom]])

# the word of faith

"Word" here is a metonym for "message." AT: "the message of faith" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metonymy]])

# if with your mouth you acknowledge Jesus as Lord

"if you confess that Jesus is Lord"

# believe in your heart

"Heart" here is a metonym for one's entire self. AT: "live in obedience to the idea"

# raised him from the dead

"Raised" here is an idiom for "caused to live again" AT: "caused him to live again"  (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-idiom]])


# you will be saved

You can translate this in an active form. AT: "God will save you" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-activepassive]])

# For with the heart man believes for righteousness, and with the mouth he acknowledges for salvation

Here "heart" is a metonym that represents the mind or will. AT: "For it is with the mind that a person trusts and is right before God, and it is with the mouth that a person confesses and God saves him" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metonymy]])

# with the mouth

Here "mouth" is a synecdoche that represents a person's capacity to speak. (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-synecdoche]])

# translationWords

* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/faith]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/proclaim]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/lord]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/believe]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/save]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/save]]