# For scripture says

Paul speaks of the Scripture as if it were alive and had a voice. You can make explicit who wrote the Scripture that Paul uses here. AT: "For Isaiah wrote in the Scriptures" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-personification]] and [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-explicit]])

# Everyone who believes on him will not be put to shame

This is equivalent to: "Everyone who does not believe will be shamed." The negative is used here for emphasis. You can translate this in an active form. AT: "God will honor everyone who believes in him" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-activepassive]])

# For there is no difference between Jew and Greek

Paul implies that God will treat all people the same. You can make this explicit in your translation. AT: "In this way, God treats the Jews and the non-Jews the same" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-explicit]])

# he is rich to all who call upon him

Here "he is rich" means that God blesses richly. You can make this explicit in your translation. AT: "he richly blesses all who trust in him" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-explicit]])

# For everyone who calls on the name of the Lord will be saved

Here the word "name" is a metonym for Jesus. You can translate this in an active form. AT: "The Lord will save everyone who trusts in him" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metonymy]] and [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-activepassive]])

# translationWords

* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/wordofgod]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/believe]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/shame]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/jew]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/names/greek]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/lord]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/call]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/save]]