# How then can they call on him in whom they have not believed?

Paul uses a question to emphasize the importance of taking the good news of Christ to those who have not heard. The word "they" refers to those who do not yet belong to God. AT: "Those who do not believe in God cannot call on him!" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-rquestion]])

# How can they believe in him of whom they have not heard?

Paul uses another question for the same reason. AT: "And they cannot believe in him if they have not heard his message!" or "And they cannot believe in him if they have not heard the message about him!" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-rquestion]])

# believe in

Here this means to acknowledge that what that person has said is true.

# How can they hear without a preacher?

Paul uses another question for the same reason. AT: "And they cannot hear the message if someone does not tell them!" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-rquestion]])

# Then how can they preach, unless they are sent?

Paul uses another question for the same reason. The word "they" refers to those who belong to God. AT: "Then they cannot tell other people the message unless someone sends them!" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-activepassive]])

# How beautiful are the feet of those who proclaim glad tidings of good things

Paul uses "feet" to represent those who travel and bring the message to those who have not heard it. AT: "It is wonderful when messengers come and tell us the good news" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metonymy]])

# translationWords

* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/call]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/believe]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/preach]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/send]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/written]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/proclaim]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/good]]