# Do those who commit iniquity have no understanding—those ... God?

This question is used to show the shock that the writer feels because the people are so sinful. It can be written as two statements. "Those who commit iniquity act as though they do not know anything. They devour my people as if they were eating bread, and they do not call on God!" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-rquestion]])

# those who devour my people as if they were eating bread

Destroying people is spoken of as devouring them. Doing it as if they were eating bread implies that they did it very easily or without feeling guilty about it. AT: "those who destroy my people as freely as if they were eating bread" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metaphor]] and [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-simile]])

# God will scatter the bones of whoever will camp against you

Scattering people's bones represents killing them and allowing their bones to remain wherever they have died and not be buried properly. "God will completely destroy whoever will camp against you, and their bones will lie scattered on the ground" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metonymy]])

# whoever will camp against you

Camping against people represents attacking them. Enemy armies would travel and set up camps to live in temporarily near the people they wanted to attack. AT: "whoever will attack you" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metonymy]])

# translationWords

* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/iniquity]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/bread]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/call]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/fear]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/shame]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/reject]]