# General Information:

In 2:1-3, Yahweh continues to speak to Judah, and tells them to repent.

# Rally yourselves together and gather

These two phrases mean the same thing. Together they intensify the command for the people to gather together in order to repent of their sins. AT: "Gather yourselves together" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-doublet]])

# unashamed nation

The nation is not sorry for their sins.

# before the decree takes effect

This phrase refers to the punishment that will happen as a result of Yahweh's decree. AT: "before Yahweh punishes you" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metonymy]])

# that day ... the day of the wrath of Yahweh ... the day of Yahweh's wrath

These phrases all refer to the "day of Yahweh." Translate these phrases as you did similar phrases in [Zephaniah 1:7-9](../01/07.md).

# that day passes like the chaff

The chaff is the insignificant part of the plant that the wind blows away. In a similar way, the day of judgment will pass quickly. AT: "that day passes as quickly as chaff blown by the wind" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-simile]])

# before the fierce anger of Yahweh's wrath comes upon you, before the day of the wrath of Yahweh comes upon you

The prophet repeats the same phrase almost exactly in order to emphasize how terrible Yahweh's judgment will be and the urgency with which the people must repent. (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-parallelism]])

# Yahweh's wrath

This stands for God's intent to punish. AT: "Yahweh's punishment" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metonymy]])

# Seek Yahweh

Seeking Yahweh represents either 1) asking God for help or 2) thinking about God and obeying him. (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metaphor]])

# Seek righteousness. Seek humility

The abstract nouns "righteousness" and "humility" can be stated as actions. AT: "Try to do what is right and to be humble" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-abstractnouns]])

# you will be protected in the day of Yahweh's wrath

This can be stated in active form. AT: "Yahweh will protect you in the day of his wrath" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-activepassive]])