# General Information:

In 2:4-15, Yahweh announces his judgment on the nations that surround Judah.

# the taunts ... the reviling

"the taunts ... the insults." These two phrases mean the same thing and emphasize that both Moab and Ammon have insulted Yahweh. (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-parallelism]])

# violated their borders

This refers to crossing over into Judah's territory in order to attack them.

# as I live

"as surely as I am alive." Yahweh uses this expression to show that what he says next is certainly true. This is a way of making a solemn promise. AT: "I solemnly swear" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-idiom]])

# this is the declaration of Yahweh of hosts, God of Israel

Yahweh speaks of himself by name to express the certainty of what he is declaring. AT: "this is what Yahweh of hosts, God of Israel, has declared" or "this is what I, Yahweh of hosts, God of Israel, have declared" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-123person]])

# like Sodom ... like Gomorrah

These two cities were so wicked that God completely destroyed them with fire from heaven. These similes therefore refer to complete destruction. This can be stated explicitly. AT: "completely destroyed like Sodom ... like Gomorrah" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-explicit]] and [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-simile]])

# a place of nettles and a salt pit

"a place with thorns and a salt pit." This describes a barren, useless land.

# the remnant of my people ... the remainder of my nation

These two phrases mean the same thing and refer to the Israelites that survived Yahweh's punishment. (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-parallelism]])

# translationWords

* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/names/moab]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/names/ammon]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/israel]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/names/sodom]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/names/gomorrah]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/forever]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/remnant]]