# General Information:

In 2:4-15, Yahweh announces his judgment on the nations that surround Judah.

# You Cushites also will be pierced by my sword

Here "pieced by my sword" is a metonym for being killed in battle. AT: "I will kill you people of Cush in battle" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metonymy]] and [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-activepassive]])

# God's hand

Here "hand" refers to power. AT: "God's power" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metonymy]])

# an abandoned devastation

The abstract noun "devastation" can be stated as an action. AT: "ruined and deserted" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-abstractnouns]])

# as dry as the desert

This means it will be so dry that nothing will grow there. (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-simile]])

# every animal of the nations

"every kind of animal"

# the screech owl

This term is uncertain. Some versions translate it as "hedgehog."

# in the top of her columns

When buildings were destroyed and fell down, the columns used for decoration and support would often remain standing.

# A call will sing out from the windows

"A call will be heard from the windows"

# beams

Beams are long and thick pieces of wood that are used to keep a building stable.

# translationWords

* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/cush]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/sword]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/hand]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/assyria]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/nineveh]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/devastated]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/desert]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/pillar]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/cedar]]