# Connecting Statement:

This is the next event in the story. Jesus begins teaching his disciples, either on the same day that the Sadducees question Jesus ([Luke 20:27](../20/27.md)) or on a different day. (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/writing-background]])

# gifts

You may need to make explicit what the gifts were. AT: "gifts of money" (See: [[:en:ta:vol1:translate:figs-explicit]])

# treasury

one of the boxes in the temple courtyard where people put money as a gift to God

# a certain poor widow

This is a way of introducing a new character to the story. (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/writing-participants]])

# two mites

"two small coins" or "two tiny copper coins." These were the least valuable of the coins people used then. AT: "two pennies" or "two small coins of little value" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/translate-bmoney]])

# Truly I say to you

This means that what Jesus was about to say was very important.

# I say to you

Jesus was talking to his disciples. The word "you" is plural. (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-you]])

# this poor widow put in more than all of them

God considers her gift, a small amount of money, more significant than the large amounts of money the men gave. AT: "the small gift of this widow is more valuable than the larger gifts of the rich men" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-hyperbole]])

# gave gifts out of their abundance

"have a lot of money but only gave a small portion of it"

# out of her poverty

"who has very little money"

# translationWords

* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/jesus]]