# you will be delivered up also by parents, brothers, relatives and friends

This can be stated in active form. AT: "even your parents, brothers, relatives, and friends will hand you over to the authorities" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-activepassive]])

# they will put some of you to death

"they will kill some of you." Possible meanings are 1) "the authorities will kill some of you" or 2) "those who deliver you up will kill some of you." The first meaning is more likely.

# You will be hated by everyone

This can be translated in active form. The word "everyone" emphasizes how many people will hate the disciples, either through 1) exaggeration AT: "It will seem like you are hated by everyone" or "It will seem like everyone hates you" or 2) a generalization. AT: "You will be hated by most people" or "Most people will hate you" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-hyperbole]])

# because of my name

"my name" here refers to Jesus. AT: "because of me" or "because you follow me" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metonymy]])

# But not a hair of your head will perish

This refers to one of the smallest parts of a person to emphasize that the whole person will not perish. Jesus had already said that some of them would be put to death. So some understand this to mean that they would not be harmed spiritually. AT: "But these things cannot really harm you" or "Even every hair on your head will be safe" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-synecdoche]])

# In your endurance

"By holding firm." This can be stated in the opposite way. AT: "If you do not quit"

# you will gain your souls

The "soul" was understood to represent the eternal part of a person. AT: "you will receive life" or "you will save yourselves"