# to them who are nursing

"to mothers who are nursing their babies"

# there will be great distress upon the land

Possible meanings are 1) the people of the land will be distressed or 2) there will be physical disasters in the land.

# wrath to this people

"there will be wrath to the people at that time." God will bring this wrath. AT: "this people will experience God's anger" or "God will be very angry and will punish this people" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-explicit]])

# They will fall by the edge of the sword

"They will be killed by the edge of the sword." Here "fall by the edge of the sword" represents being killed by enemy soldiers. AT: "Enemy soldiers will kill them" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metonymy]])

# they will be led captive into all the nations

This can be stated in active form. AT: "their enemies will capture them and take them to other countries" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-activepassive]])

# into all the nations

The word "all" is an exaggeration to emphasize that they will be led into many countries. AT: "into many other countries" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-hyperbole]])

# Jerusalem will be trampled by the Gentiles

Possible meanings are 1) the Gentiles will conquer Jerusalem and occupy it or 2) the Gentiles will destroy the city of Jerusalem or 3) the Gentiles will destroy the people of Jerusalem. (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-activepassive]])

# trampled by the Gentiles

This metaphor speaks of Jerusalem as if the people of other nations was walking on it and crushing it down with their feet. This refers to domination. AT: "conquered by the Gentiles" or "destroyed by the other nations" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metaphor]])

# the times of the Gentiles are fulfilled

This can be stated in active form. AT: "the period of the Gentiles has come to an end" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-activepassive]])

# translationWords

* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/woe]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/wrath]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/sword]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/captive]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/nation]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/jerusalem]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/gentile]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/fulfill]]