# General Information:

Job continues to speak to his three friends.

# See

The word "See" here adds emphasis to what follows. AT: "Indeed"

# Violence!

This is a cry for help. This can be stated clearly. AT: "Violence! Help!" or "Help! I am being attacked!" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-explicit]])

# I call out for help

"I shout for help" or "I cry for help"

# but there is no justice

The abstract noun "justice" can be translated with a phrase that makes the meaning clear. AT: "but no one protects me from those who do me wrong" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-abstractnouns]] and [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-explicit]])

# He has walled up ... darkness in my path

Job uses these images to describe how God has made him feel helpless and hopeless. (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metaphor]])

# He has walled up my way so that I cannot pass

"God has put a wall on the road that I am walking on" or "He has blocked the way so I cannot keep going"

# He has stripped ... the crown from my head

Job uses these images to say that God has taken his good reputation, wealth, and dignity away from him. (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metaphor]])

# He has stripped me of my glory

Job speaks of his glory as if it were a robe that God has taken away. AT: "He has taken away my glory" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metaphor]])

# he has taken the crown from my head

The crown refers to Job's dignity or honor. AT: "he has taken away my dignity and honor" or "it is as though he has taken my crown off my head" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metaphor]])

# translationWords

* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/call]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/justice]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/darkness]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/glory]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/crown]]