# General Information:

Job continues to speak to his three friends.

# He has broken me down on every side

Job speaks of God ruining him as if Job were building that God is smashing down. AT: "He has ruined me in every way" or "He has attacked me in every way" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metaphor]])

# I am gone

The metaphor "being gone" represents being completely destroyed. AT: "I am completely destroyed" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metaphor]])

# he has plucked up my hope like a tree

Job speaks of God causing Job not to have hope as if Job's hope were a tree. Instead of cutting down the tree, God pulled the whole tree with its roots out of the ground. AT: "he has completely taken away all my hope" or "because of what he has done, I can no longer hope for anything good" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-simile]])

# He has also kindled his wrath against me

Job speaks of God's wrath as if it were a fire. AT: "God has also lit a fire of anger against me" or "God has also become very angry with me" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metaphor]])

# he regards me as one of his adversaries

"he thinks of me as an enemy"

# His troops come on together

Job speaks of God attacking him as if Job was a city and God was sending an army to attack it. AT: "God sends his army to attack me" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metaphor]])

# they cast up siege mounds against me

Job speaks of God attacking him as if Job was a city and God's army was piling up dirt against the city wall in order to climb over the wall and attack the city. AT: "the soldiers pile up dirt in order to climb over my wall" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metaphor]])

# encamp around my tent

Job speaks of God attacking him as if Job was in his tent and God's army was camping around him and preparing to attack him. AT: "they camp around my tent and prepare to attack me" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metaphor]])

# translationWords

* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/hope]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/wrath]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/adversary]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/siege]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/tent]]