# General Information:

Job continues to speak to his three friends.

# My bones cling to my skin and to my flesh

"I am just skin and bones" or "My skin sticks to my bones." Job speaks of his bones, skin, and flesh to describe his appearance. He was extremely thin, and people could easily see the shape of his bones. Some languages have idioms for this.

# I survive only by the skin of my teeth

This idiom means that he is barely surviving, that he almost does not survive. AT: "I am barely alive" or "I hardly survive" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-idiom]])

# Have pity upon me

"Have compassion on me"

# for the hand of God has touched me

Here "touched me" is a metonym for "hit me." And, "hand" represents God's power. Causing Job to suffer is spoken of as if Yahweh were physically hitting him with his hand. AT: "because God has afflicted me" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metonymy]] and [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metaphor]])

# Why do you pursue me ... God does?

Job uses this question to complain about how his friends are treating him. AT: "Do not persecute me ... God does!" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-rquestion]])

# Will you ever be satisfied with my flesh?

Job uses this question to complain about how his friends are treating him. AT: "You have consumed my flesh enough!" or "Stop consuming my flesh!" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-rquestion]])

# Will you ever be satisfied with my flesh?

Job speaks of his friends speaking so cruelly to him as if they were wild beasts eating up another animal. AT: "Stop violently slandering me." or "Stop attacking me with your words." (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metaphor]])

# translationWords

* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/flesh]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/hand]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/persecute]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/consume]]