# General Information:

Job continues to speak to his three friends.

# my Redeemer

"My Defender." Here "Redeemer" refers to a person who will rescue Job by proving Job's innocence, restoring his honor, and giving him justice.

# at last he will stand on the earth

This refers to standing to speak in court. Possible meanings are 1) the Redeemer will be the last one to speak in the court. AT: "he will judge whether or not I am guilty" or 2) the Redeemer will stand in this final court to defend Job. AT: "at last he will defend me in court" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metonymy]])

# after my skin ... is destroyed

Possible meanings are that this refers to 1) his body being destroyed by disease or 2) his body decaying after he has died.

# in my flesh I will see God

His flesh represents his body, and "in my flesh" represents being alive. AT: "while I live in my body, I will see God" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metonymy]])

# my own eyes—I, and not someone else

The synecdoche "my own eyes" represents Job. The phrases "my eyes" and "and not someone else" emphasize that Job himself will actually see God. It is not that someone else will see God and tell Job about him. (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-synecdoche]])

# My heart fails within me

People thought of the heart as being where the emotions are. So the heart failing represents him having very many emotions. AT: "I am very emotional about it" or "My emotions overwhelm me as I think about that" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metaphor]])

# My heart fails within me

Possible meanings are that 1) Job feels very hopeful, thankful, and happy or 2) Job feels exhausted waiting to see his Redeemer. (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-explicit]])

# translationWords

* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/know]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/redeem]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/life]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/flesh]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/god]]