# see

"look" or "listen" or "pay attention to what I am about to tell you"

# the day is coming, burning like a furnace

The disaster occurring at this time is spoken of as if the day itself were burning. God's judgment is often spoken of as if it were a fire. (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metaphor]])

# arrogant ... evildoers

See how you translated these wordsd in [Malachi 3:15](../03/13.md).

# all the arrogant and all the evildoers will become stubble

These people are spoken of as if they will become dried-up plants fit only for being burned. It is common for the Bible to speak of people as if they were plants or trees. AT: "all the arrogant and all the evildoers will burn up like dry plants" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metaphor]])

# The day that is coming will burn them up

Here "the day" stands for the events that will occur on that day. AT: "On that day I will burn them up" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metonymy]])

# it will leave them neither root nor branch

This expression continues to speak of people as if they were plants or trees. So being deprived of all roots and branches stands for being completely killed off. AT: "nothing will be left" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-merism]] and [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metaphor]])

# you who fear my name

Here "my name" stands for Yahweh himself. (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metonymy]])

# the sun of righteousness will rise with healing in its wings

This can mean 1) Yahweh, who always acts righteously, will come and heal his people on that day or 2) on that day Yahweh will reveal the people's righteousness and heal them.

# healing in its wings

Possible meanings are 1) the act of healing someone is spoken of as if it were an object that the sun carried to people by means of its wings or 2) the healing takes place under the wings, that is, in the security God gives his people. (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-abstractnouns]] and [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metaphor]])

# wings

It was common in the Ancient Near East to speak of the sun as if it had wings, with which it moved across the sky. Possible meanings are 1) the sun's life-giving rays of light are spoken of as if they were its wings or 2) the wings are said to cover God's people so as to give them peace and safey. (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metaphor]])

# You will go out, and you will leap like calves from the stall

Here the redeemed people of Yahweh are spoken of as if they were young bulls released from their stalls, allowed to go out into their pasture. (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-simile]])

# you will trample down the wicked, for they will be ashes under the soles of your feet

Here the victory of God's people is spoken of as if they were walking over the burned bodies of their enemies. (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metaphor]])

# they will be ashes

The Israelites' enemies are spoken of as having been burned to ashes. (See: [Malachi 4:01](./01.md))