# became unclean by the body of a dead man

This implies that they touched the dead man, which made them unclean. You can make clear the full meaning of this statement. AT: "became unclean because they touched the body of a dead man" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-explicit]])

# unclean

A person who God considers spiritually unacceptable or defiled is spoken of as if the person were physically unclean. (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metaphor]])

# keep the Passover

Here the word "keep" means to observe. AT: "observe the Passover" or "celebrate the Passover" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-idiom]])

# because of the dead body of a man

This means that they had touched a dead man's body. You can make the full meaning of this statement clear. AT: "because we have touched the body of a dead man" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-explicit]])

# Why do you keep us from offering the sacrifice ... among the people of Israel?

The men ask this question in order to complain that they are not allowed to participate in celebrating the Passover. This rhetorical question can be translated as a statement. AT: "It is not fair that you keep us away from offering the sacrifice ... among the people of Israel." (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-rquestion]])

# fixed

set or predetermined

# translationWords

* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/unclean]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/body]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/death]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/names/aaron]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/sacrifice]]