# Connecting Statement:

Under grace, Paul tells those who believe in Jesus to live a new life as though dead to sin and alive to God.

# What then will we say? Should we continue in sin so that grace may abound?

Paul asks these rhetorical questions to get the attention of his readers. AT: "So, what should we say about all of this? We certainly should not keep on sinning so that God will give us more and more grace! (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-rquestion]])

# we say

The pronoun "we" refers to Paul, his readers, and other people. (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-inclusive]])

# We who died to sin, how can we still live in it?

Here "died to sin" means that those who follow Jesus are now like dead people who cannot be affected by sin. Paul uses this rhetorical question to add emphasis. AT: "We are now like dead people on whom sin has no effect! So we certainly should not keep on sinning!" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metaphor]] and [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-rquestion]])

# Do you not know that as many as were baptized into Christ Jesus were baptized into his death?

Paul uses this question to add emphasis. AT: "Remember, when someone baptized us to show that we have a relationship with Christ, this also shows that we died with Christ on the cross! (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-rquestion]])

# translationWords

* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/sin]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/grace]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/death]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/baptize]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/jesus]]