# our old man was crucified with him

The "old man" is a metaphor that refers to the person before he believes in Jesus. Paul describes our old sinful person as dying on the cross with Jesus when we believe in Jesus. You can translate this in an active form. AT: "our sinful person died on the cross with Jesus" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metaphor]] and [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-activepassive]])

# old man

This means the person who once was, but who does not exist now.

# the body of sin

This is a metonym that refers to the whole sinful person. AT: "our sinful nature" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metonymy]])

# might be destroyed

You can translate this in an active form. AT: "might die" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-activepassive]])

# we should no longer be enslaved to sin

Paul compares the power sin has over a person to a master who controls a slave. A person without the Holy Spirit is not free to do what pleases God. You can translate this in an active form. AT: "our sinful nature will no longer force us to do what is wrong" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metaphor]] and [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-activepassive]])

# He who has died is declared righteous with respect to sin

Here "righteous" refers to God's ability to make people right with him. You can translate this in an active form. AT: "When God declares a person right with him, that person is no longer controlled by sin" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-explicit]] and [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-activepassive]])

# translationWords

* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/crucify]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/enslave]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/sin]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/death]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/righteous]]