# Connecting Statement:

Paul reminds us that grace rules over us, not the law; we are not sin's slaves, but God's slaves.

# do not let sin rule in your mortal body

Paul speaks of people sinning as if sin was there master or king that controlled them.  AT: "Do not let sinful desires control you"  (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-personification]])

# in your mortal body

This phrase refers to the physical part of a person, which will die. AT: "you" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-synecdoche]])

# in order that you may obey its lusts

Paul speaks of a person having evil desires as if it sin were a master that had evil desires. (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-personification]])

# Do not present the parts of your body to sin, to be tools used for unrighteousness

The picture is of the sinner offering the "parts of his body" to his master or king. One's "body parts" are a synecdoche for the whole person. AT: "Do not offer yourselves to sin so that you do what is not right" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-synecdoche]])

# But present yourselves to God, as those who have been brought from death to life

Here "now living" refers to the believer's new spiritual life. AT: "But offer yourselves to God, because he has given you new spiritual life" or "But offer yourselves to God, as those who had died and are now alive" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-explicit]])

# present the parts of your body to God as tools to be used for righteousness

Here "parts of your body" is a synecdoche that refers to the whole person. AT: "let God use you for what is pleasing to him" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-synecdoche]])

# Do not allow sin to rule over you

Paul speaks of "sin" here as if it were a king who rules over people. AT: "Do not let sinful desires control what you do" or "Do not allow yourselves to do the sinful things you want to do" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-personification]])

# For you are not under law

To be "under law" means to be subject to its limitations and weaknesses. You can make the full meaning explicit in your translation. AT: "For you are no longer bound to the law of Moses, which could not give you the power to stop sinning" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-explicit]])

# but under grace

To be "under grace" means that God's free gift provides the power to keep from sinning. You can make the full meaning explicit in your translation. AT: "but you are bound to God's grace, which does give you the power to stop sinning" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-explicit]])

# translationWords

* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/sin]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/obey]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/lust]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/righteous]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/righteous]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/lawofmoses]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/grace]]