# What then? Shall we sin because we are not under law, but under grace? May it never be

Paul is using a question to emphasize that living under grace is not a reason to sin. AT: "However, just because we are bound to grace instead of the law of Moses certainly does not mean we are allowed to sin" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-rquestion]])

# May it never be

"We would never want that to happen!" or "May God help me not to do that!" This expression shows an extremely strong desire that this does not take place. You may have a similar expression in your language that you could use here. See how you translated it in [Romans 3:31](../03/31.md).

# Do you not know that the one to whom you present yourselves as slaves is the one to which you are obedient, the one you must obey?

Paul uses a question to scold anyone who may think God's grace is a reason to keep sinning. You can translate this as a strong statement. AT: "You should know that you are slaves to the master you choose to obey!" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-rquestion]])

# whether you are slaves to sin ... or slaves to obedience

Here, Paul speaks of "sin" and "obedience" as if they were masters that a slave would obey. AT: "whether you are like slaves to sin ... or like slaves to obedience" or "You are either a slave to sin ... or you are a slave to obedience" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-personification]])

# which leads to death ... which leads to righteousness

"which results in death ... which results in righteousness" 

# translationWords

* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/sin]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/lawofmoses]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/grace]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/servant]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/obey]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/death]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/righteous]]