# But thanks be to God!

"But I thank God!"

# For you were slaves of sin

Slavery of sin is a metaphor meaning having such a strong desire to sin that one is unable to stop himself from sinning. It is as if sin controls the person. AT: "you were like slaves of sin" or "you were controlled by sin" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metaphor]])

# but you have obeyed from the heart

Here the word "heart" refers to having sincere or honest motives for doing something. AT: "but you truly obeyed" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metonymy]])

# the pattern of teaching that you were given

Here "pattern" refers to the way of living that leads to righteousness. The believers change their old way of living to match this new way of living that Christian leaders teach to them. You can translate this in an active form. AT: "the teaching that Christian leaders gave you" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-activepassive]])

# You have been made free from sin

You can translate this in an active form. AT: "Christ has freed you from sin" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-activepassive]])

# You have been made free from sin

Here "free from sin" is a metaphor for no longer having a strong desire to sin and being able to stop oneself from sinning. AT: "Your strong desire to sin has been taken away" or "you have been made free from sin's control over you"

# you have been made slaves of righteousness

Slavery of righteousness is a metaphor meaning having a strong desire to do what is right. It is as if righteousness controls the person. AT: "you have been made like slaves of righteousness" or "you are now controlled by righteousness" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metaphor]])

# you have been made slaves of righteousness

This can be stated in active form. AT: "Christ has made you slaves of righteousness" or "Christ has changed you so that now you are controlled by righteousness"

# translationWords

* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/god]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/servant]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/sin]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/obey]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/heart]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/free]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/righteous]]