# May he live!

This saying was used to honor the king by expressing a desire to have him live a long time. AT: "May the king live a long time!" or "I desire that the king live a long time!" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-idiom]])

# May the gold of Sheba be given to him

This can be stated in active form. AT: "May they give him the gold of Sheba" or "May he receive the gold of Sheba" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-activepassive]])

# all day long

This idiom means "continually" and does not refer only to one day. AT: "continually" or "all the time" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-idiom]])

# abundance of grain

An "abundance" is when there is much of something. This abstract noun can be stated as "much" or "plenty" AT: "much grain" or "plenty of grain" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-abstractnouns]])

# crops

plants that people grow for food

# wave

Use the word for what long grass does when a gentle wind blows on it and it moves slowly back and forth.

# like Lebanon

"like the cedar trees in Lebanon." These trees were beautiful and had wood that was good for building. The meaning of this can be made clear. (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-simile]] and [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-explicit]])

# the people flourish in the cities like the grass of the field

The prosperity of the people in the cities is spoken of as if they were grass that grows abundantly in the fields. (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-simile]])

# translationWords

* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/life]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/gold]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/sheba]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/pray]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/god]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/bless]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/grain]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/lebanon]]