# the apostles

This refers to Peter and John.

# What shall we do to these men?

The Jewish leaders ask this question out of frustration because they could not think of what to do with Peter and John. AT: "There is nothing that we can do with these men!" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-rquestion]])

# For the fact that a remarkable miracle has been done through them is known to everyone who lives in Jerusalem

This can be stated in active form. AT: "For everyone who lives in Jerusalem knows that they have done a remarkable miracle" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-activepassive]])

# everyone who lives in Jerusalem

This is a generalization. It may also be an exaggeration to show that the leaders think that this is a very big problem. AT: "many of the people who live in Jerusalem" or "people who live throughout Jerusalem" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-hyperbole]])

# in order that it spreads no further

Here the word "it" refers to any miracles or teaching Peter and John might continue to do. AT: "in order that news of this miracle spreads no further" or "in order that no more people hear about this miracle" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-explicit]])

# not to speak anymore to anyone in this name

Here the word "name" refers to the person of Jesus. AT: "not to speak anymore to anyone about this person, Jesus" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metonymy]])

# translationWords

* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/command]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/apostle]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/council]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/miracle]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/jerusalem]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/name]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/jesus]]