# General Information:

Speaking together, the people quote a Psalm of David from the Old Testament.

# General Information:

Here the word "they" refers to the rest of the believers, but not to Peter and John.

# came to their own people

The phrase "their own people" refers to the rest of the believers. AT: "went to the other believers" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-explicit]])

#  they raised their voices together to God

"Raised" here is an idiom for "increased the sound of their voices" AT: "They increased the sound of their speaking together to God" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-idiom]])

# You spoke by the Holy Spirit through the mouth of your servant, our father David

This means that the Holy Spirit caused David to speak or write down what God said.

# through the mouth of your servant, our father David

Here the word "mouth" refers to the words that David spoke or wrote down. AT: "by the words of your servant, our father David" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metonymy]])

# our father David

Here "father" refers to "ancestor/"

# Why did the Gentile nations rage, and the peoples imagine useless things?

This is a rhetorical question that emphasizes the futility of opposing God. AT: "The Gentile nations should not have raged, and the peoples should not have imagined useless things" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-rquestion]])

# the peoples imagine useless things

These "useless things" consist of plans to oppose God. AT: "the peoples imagine useless things against God" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-explicit]])

# peoples

"people groups" or "tribes"

# translationWords

* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/free]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/chiefpriests]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/elder]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/god]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/lord]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/heaven]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/earth]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/holyspirit]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/father]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/names/david]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/servant]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/gentile]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/nation]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/rage]]