# Now

This word marks a break in the teaching. Here Paul returns to the topic about those who think being godly will make them wealthy (See: [1 Timothy 6:5](./03.md)).

# to become wealthy fall into temptation, into a trap

Paul speaks about those who let the temptation of money cause them to sin as if they are animals that have fallen into a hole that a hunter has used as a trap. AT: "to become wealthy will encounter more temptation than they can resist, and they will be like an animal in a trap (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metaphor]])

# They fall into many foolish and harmful passions

This continues the trap metaphor. This means that their foolish and harmful passions will overcome them. AT: "And as an animal falls into a hunter's trap, they will fall into many foolish and harmful passions" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metaphor]])

# into whatever else makes people sink into ruin and destruction

Paul speaks about those that let sin destroy them as if they are a boat that sinks under the water. AT: "into other kinds of evil that ruin and destroy people as if they were a boat sinking under the water" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metaphor]])

# For the love of money is a root of all kinds of evil

Paul speaks of the cause of evil as if it were a plant root. AT: "This happens because loving money is a cause of all kinds of evil" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metaphor]])

# who desire it

"who desire money"

# have been mislead away from the faith

Paul speaks of wrong desires as if they were evil guides who intentionally guide people down the wrong path. This can be stated in active form. AT: "have let their desires lead them away from the truth" or "have stopped believing the truth" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metaphor]] and [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-activepassive]])

# have pierced themselves with much grief

Paul speaks about grief as if it were a sword that a person uses to stab themselves. AT: "have caused themselves to be very sorrowful" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metaphor]])

# translationWords

* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/tempt]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/snare]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/foolish]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/ruin]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/evil]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/faith]]