# But you

Here "you" is singular and refers to Timothy. (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-you]])

# man of God

"servant of God" or "person who belongs to God"

# flee from these things

Paul speaks of these temptations and sins as if they were things that a person could physically run away from. AT: "completely avoid these things" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metaphor]])

# these things

Possible meanings of "these things" are 1) the "love of money" or 2) the different teachings, pride, arguments, and the love of money.

# Pursue righteousness

"Run after" or "Chase." Paul speaks of righteousness and other good qualities as if they were things that a person could run after. This metaphor is the opposite of "flee from." It means to try your best to obtain something. AT: "Seek to gain" or "Do your best to act in" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metaphor]])

# Fight the good fight of faith

Here Paul speaks about a person continuing in faith as if they are an athlete fighting to win a contest or a warrior fighting a battle. AT: "Try your hardest to obey Christ's teachings with as much energy as an athlete uses in a contest" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metaphor]])

# Take hold of the everlasting life

This continues the metaphor. Paul speaks about a person receiving eternal life as if they are a victorious athlete or warrior taking their prize. AT: "Take eternal life as your reward as a victorious athlete takes his prize" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metaphor]])

# to which you were called

This can be stated in active form. AT: "to which God has called you" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-activepassive]])

# you gave the good confession

"you confessed what is good" or "you confessed the truth"

# before many witnesses

Paul expresses the idea of location in order to signal the idea of the people to whom Timothy was speaking. AT: "to many witnesses" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metonymy]])

# translationWords

* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/righteous]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/godly]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/faithful]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/love]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/endure]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/faith]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/eternity]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/call]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/good]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/confess]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/witness]]