# General Information:

Here the word "He" refers to the Lord.

# So they stayed there

"Nevertheless they stayed there." Paul and Barnabas stayed in Iconium to help the many people who had believed in [Acts 14:1](./01.md). "So" could be omitted if it adds confusion to the text.

# gave evidence about the message of his grace

"demonstrated that the message about his grace was true"

# about the message of his grace

"about the message of the Lord's grace"

# by granting signs and wonders to be done by the hands of Paul and Barnabas

This can be stated in active form. AT: "by enabling Paul and Barnabas to perform signs and wonders" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-activepassive]])

# by the hands of Paul and Barnabas

Here "hands" refers to the will and effort of these two men as guided by the Holy Spirit. AT: "by the ministry of Paul and Barnabas" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-synecdoche]])

# the majority of the city was divided

Here "city"refers to the people in the city. AT: "most of the people of the city were divided" or "most of the people of the city did not agree with each other" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metonymy]])

# sided with the Jews

"supported the Jews" or "agreed with the Jews." The first group mentioned did not agree with the message about grace.

# with the apostles

The second group mentioned agreed with the message about grace. It may be helpful to restate the verb. AT: "sided with the apostles" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-ellipsis]])

# the apostles

Luke refers to Paul and Barnabas. Here "apostle" might be used in the general sense of "ones sent out."