# what Paul had done

This refers to Paul's healing the crippled man.

# The gods have come down to us

A large number of people believed Paul and Barnabas were their pagan gods who had come down from heaven. AT: "The gods have come down from heaven to us" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-explicit]])

# in the dialect of Lycaonia

"in their own Lycaonian language." The people of Lystra spoke Lycaonian and also Greek.

# in the form of men

These people believed that the gods needed to change their appearance in order to look like men.

# Zeus

Zeus was the king over all the other pagan gods. (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/translate-names]])

# Hermes

Hermes was the pagan god who brought messages to people from Zeus and the other gods. (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/translate-names]])

# The priest of Zeus, whose temple was just outside the city, brought

It may be helpful to include additional information about the priest. AT: "There was a temple just outside the city where the people worshiped Zeus. When the priest who served in the temple heard what Paul and Barnabas had done, he brought" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-explicit]])

# oxen and wreaths

The oxen were to be sacrificed. The wreaths were either to crown Paul and Barnabas, or put on the oxen for sacrifice.

# to the gates

The gates of the cities were often used as a meeting place for the people of the city.

# wanted to offer sacrifice

"wanted to offer sacrifice to Paul and Barnabas as the gods Zeus and Hermes"

# translationWords

* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/paul]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/barnabas]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/priest]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/temple]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/sacrifice]]