# General Information:

Isaiah speaks to the people of Judah in the form of a poem. (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-parallelism]])

# Judah and Jerusalem

"Judah" and "Jerusalem" are metonyms for the people who live there. AT: "those living in Judah and Jerusalem" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metonymy]])

# in the last days

"in the future"

# the mountain of Yahweh's house will be established

This can be stated 1) as a description. AT: "The mountain of Yahweh's house will stand" or 2) in active form. AT: "Yahweh will establish the mountain on which his temple is built" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-activepassive]])

# as the highest of the mountains

Isaiah speaks of importance as if it were physical height. AT: "the most important of the mountains" or "the most important place in the world" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metaphor]])

# it will be raised up above the hills

Isaiah speaks of honor in metaphor as if it were physical height. This can be stated 1) in active form. AT: "Yahweh will honor it more than any other hill" or 2) as a metonym for the people who worship there. AT: "Yahweh will honor the people who worship there more than he honors any other people" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metaphor]] and [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-activepassive]] and [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metonymy]])

# all the nations

Here "nations" is a metonym for the people of those nations. AT: "people from all the nations" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metonymy]])

# will flow to it

The people around the world going to the mountain of Yahweh is compared to how a river flows. This emphasizes that many people will come, not just a few people. AT: "will flow like a river to it" or "will go to it" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metaphor]])

# translationWords

* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/isaiah]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/amoz]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/judah]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/jerusalem]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/lastday]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/houseofgod]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/exalt]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/nation]]