# General Information:

Isaiah speaks to the people of Judah in the form of a poem. (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-parallelism]])

# Jacob, so he may teach ... and we may walk

Another possible meaning is "Jacob. He will teach ... and we will walk"

# he may teach us some of his ways, and we may walk in his paths

The words "ways" and "paths" are metaphors for the way a person lives. If your language has only one word for the ground on which people walk, you may combine these phrases. AT: "he may teach us his will so that we may obey him" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-parallelism]] and [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metaphor]])

# For out of Zion will go the law, and the word of Yahweh from Jerusalem

These phrases mean the same thing. Isaiah was emphasizing that all nations will understand that the truth is found in Jerusalem. AT: "People in Zion will teach God's law, and people in Jerusalem will teach the word of Yahweh" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-parallelism]])

# For out of Zion will go the law

"For the law will go out from Zion." Isaiah speaks as if the law were something like a river that moves without people doing anything. AT: "Those to whom they teach the law will go out from Zion" or "Yahweh will proclaim his law from Zion" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metaphor]])

# the word of Yahweh from Jerusalem

"the word of Yahweh will go out from Jerusalem." Isaiah speaks as if the word of Yahweh were something like a river that moves without people doing anything. You can make clear the understood information. AT: "Those to whom they teach the word of Yahweh will go out from Jerusalem" or "Yahweh will proclaim his word from Jerusalem" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metaphor]] and [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-ellipsis]])

