# General Information:

In 2:5 Isaiah speaks to the people of Judah, and in 2:6 he speaks to Yahweh. Both times he speaks in the form of a poem. (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-parallelism]])

# House of Jacob

"You descendants of Jacob." The word "house" is a metonym for the people who live in the house, the family. Here "Jacob" represents the nation of Judah, but it would be best to use "Jacob" here. (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metonymy]])

# come

a gentle encouragement to do what the speaker is about to tell the hearer to do

# let us walk in the light of Yahweh

Isaiah speaks of people learning and then doing what Yahweh wants them to do as if they were walking at night with a lamp that Yahweh has provided so they can see the path. AT: "let us learn how Yahweh wants us to live and then live that way" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metaphor]])

# For you have abandoned your people

"For you have left your people" and do not care what happens to them. Here the word "you" refers to Yahweh and so is singular. (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-pronouns]])

# they are filled with customs from the east

Isaiah speaks as if the people were containers who were full of something from the east. Possible meanings are that he speaks of 1) the deeds that the eastern peoples do. AT: "they do all the time the evil things the people who live in lands east of Israel do" or 2) people, specifically those who claim to speak to dead people, who have come from the east to do evil deeds. AT: "many diviners have come from the east and now live there" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metaphor]] and [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-explicit]])

# omen readers

people who claim that they can tell the future by looking at things like animal parts and leaves

# they shake hands with sons of foreigners

Clasping hands together is the symbol of friendship and peace. AT: "they make peace and work together with people who are not from Israel" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/translate-symaction]])

# translationWords

* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/house]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/names/jacob]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/walk]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/light]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/yahweh]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/peopleofgod]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/names/philistines]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/son]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/foreigner]]