# General Information:

In 2:9 Isaiah finishes speaking to Yahweh. In 2:10-11 Isaiah speaks to the people of Judah. Both times he speaks in the form of a poem. (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-parallelism]])

# The people will be bowed down, and individuals will fall down

Here being low to the ground represents people who are completely humiliated because they realize all they trusted in is worthless, and they can do nothing to help themselves. This can be stated in active form. AT: "God will make the people ashamed, and they will realize that all they trusted in is worthless" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metaphor]] and [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-activepassive]])

# The people

human beings, as opposed to animals

# individuals

"each person"

# do not raise them up

The words "raise them up" are a metaphor for Yahweh forgiving the people. AT: "do not forgive them" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metaphor]])

# Go into the rocky places

Possible meanings are the people should go into 1) caves on steep hillsides or 2) places where there are many large rocks among which to hide.

# hide in the ground

Possible meanings are that the people should hide 1) in natural holes in the ground or 2) in pits that they dig in the ground.

# from the terror of Yahweh

Here the abstract noun "terror" can be expressed by the verb "terrifying." AT: "to get away from Yahweh's terrifying presence" or "from Yahweh because you will be extremely afraid of him" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-abstractnouns]])

# the glory of his majesty

"the great beauty and power he has as king" or "his royal splendor." See how you translated this in [Isaiah 2:10](./09.md).

# The lofty gaze of man will be brought low

"Yahweh will bring down the lofty gaze of man." A man with a "lofty gaze" is looking above everyone to show them that he is better than they are. Here all people are guilty of thinking they are better than Yahweh, and the way they look at those who worship Yahweh, is a metonym for their pride. AT: "Yahweh will make ashamed all people because they think they are better than he is" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metaphor]] and [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metonymy]])

# the pride of men will be brought down

"The pride of men" is a metonym for proud people, and being "brought down" is a metaphor for being humbled or ashamed. This can be stated in active form. AT: "Yahweh will bring down proud men" or "Yahweh will make proud people ashamed of themselves" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metonymy]] and [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metaphor]] and [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-activepassive]])

# Yahweh alone will be exalted

This can be stated in active form. AT: "people will praise only Yahweh" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-activepassive]])

# on that day

This is an idiom. AT: "on the day that Yahweh judges everyone" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-idiom]])

# translationWords

* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/bow]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/terror]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/glory]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/majesty]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/proud]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/exalt]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/dayofthelord]]