# General Information:

Isaiah speaks to the people of Judah in the form of a poem. He continues to describe what will happen on the day of Yahweh of Hosts ([Isaiah 2:12](./12.md)). (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-parallelism]])

# to the moles and bats

Moles are small animals that dig and live underground. Bats are small flying animals that sometimes live in caves. AT: "to the animals" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/translate-unknown]])

# the crevices in the rocks ... the clefts of the ragged rocks

If your language does not have two different words for "crevice" and "cleft," the space that appears between the two parts of a rock when it splits, you can combine these two phrases into one.

# from the terror of Yahweh

because they are very afraid of Yahweh. See how you translated this in [Isaiah 2:19](./17.md).

# the glory of his majesty

"the great beauty and power he has as king" or "his royal majesty." See how you translated this in [Isaiah 2:10](./09.md).

# when he rises to terrify the earth

"when Yahweh takes action and causes the people of the earth to be terribly afraid of him." See how you translated this in [Isaiah 2:19](./17.md).

# whose life-breath is in his nostrils

This describes how man is human and weak by emphasizing that he needs to breath to live. AT: "who is weak and will die" or "who needs the breath in his nose to live" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-explicit]])

# nostrils

the holes in the nose through which people breathe

# for what does he amount to?

Isaiah uses a question to remind the people of something they should already know. This question can be translated as a statement. AT: "for man amounts to nothing!" or "for man is not worth anything!" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-rquestion]])