# because of the sins of the house of Israel

The word "house" is a metonym for the family that lives in the house, in this case the people of Israel. AT: "because the people of Israel have sinned against me" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metonymy]])

# All this is

"The Lord will come and judge"

# What is Jacob's transgression?

The name "Jacob" is a metonym for those of his descendants who live in the northern kingdom of Israel. (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metonymy]])

# Is it not Samaria?

Here "Samaria" is a metonym for the evil activities that take place there. Micah uses a question to emphasize that the people know what the truth is. This can be translated as a statement. AT: "You know that it is Samaria." (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metonymy]] and [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-rquestion]])

# What is Judah's high place?

Here "high place" is a synecdoche for the entire system of idol worship. "Judah" is a metonym for the people who live there. AT: "Where do the people of Judah go to worship idols?" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-synecdoche]] and [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metonymy]])

# Is it not Jerusalem?

Here "Jerusalem" is a metonym for the evil activities that take place there. Micah uses a question to emphasize that the people know what the truth is. This question can be translated as a statement. AT: "You know that it is Jerusalem." (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metonymy]] and [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-rquestion]])

# translationWords

* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/jacob]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/sin]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/house]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/israel]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/samaria]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/kingdomofjudah]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/highplaces]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/jerusalem]]