# General Information:

Micah 1:8-16 is about God's judgment on Judah.

# I will lament

Here "I" refers to Micah.

# I will lament and wail

"Lament" refers to the inner feeling of sadness, and "wail" refers to the activity of making a loud, sad sound.

# I will go barefoot and naked

This is a sign of extreme mourning and distress. Another possible meaning is "I will look like someone has taken off my clothes; I will be naked"

# naked

probably wearing only a loincloth

# like the jackals ... like owls

Jackals and owls live in wastelands, and their loud cries sound like people wailing or weeping. (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-simile]])

# For her wound is incurable

Here "her" refers to the city of Samaria. This means nothing can stop the enemy army from destroying the people who live there. (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metaphor]])

# for it has come to Judah

Micah uses contagious disease as a metaphor for the army that Yahweh has sent to judge Samaria. Here "it" refers to the "wound," that is, to the army that God will use to punish Samaria. (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metaphor]])

# Beth Leaphrah

You may want to make a footnote saying, "The name of this city means 'house of dust.'" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/translate-names]])

# I roll myself in the dust

People under God's judgment are expressing their grief in a strong way. AT: "I roll myself on the ground" or "I roll myself in the mud" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/translate-symaction]])

# translationWords

* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/lament]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/mourn]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/names/judah]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/gate]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/names/jerusalem]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/names/gath]]