# General Information:

In verses 11 and 12, Jesus shows how the Pharisees teach people that they do not have to obey God's commandment to honor their parents.

# General Information:

In verse 11 Jesus tells what the Pharisees allow people to say about their possessions, and in verse 12 he tells how that shows the Pharisees' attitude toward people helping their parents. This information can be reordered to first tell about the Pharisees' attitude toward people helping their parents and then tell how that attitude is shown in what the Pharisees allow people to say about their possessions. (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/translate-versebridge]])

# Whatever help you would have received from me is Corban

The tradition of the scribes said that once money or other things were promised to the temple, they could not be used for any other purpose. 

# is Corban

"Corban" is a Hebrew word that refers to things that people promise to give to God. Translators normally transliterate it using the target language alphabet. Some translators translate its meaning, and then leave out Mark's explanation of the meaning that follows.  AT: "is a gift to God" or "belongs to God" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/translate-transliterate]])

# Given to God

This phrase explains the meaning of the Hebrew word "Corban." It can be stated in active form. Mark explained the meaning so that his non-Jewish readers could understand what Jesus said. AT: "I have given it to God" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-activepassive]])

# then you no longer permit him to do anything for his father or his mother

By doing this, the Pharisees are allowing people not to provide for their parents, if they promise to give to God what they would have given to them. (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-explicit]])

# void

canceled or done away with

# many similar things you do

"you are doing may other things similar to this"

# translationWords

* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/god]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/command]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/tradition]]