# Connecting Statement:

The disciples still do not understand what Jesus has just said to the scribes, Pharisees, and crowds. Jesus explains his meaning more thoroughly to them.

# Now

This word is used here to mark a break in the main story line. Jesus is now away from the crowd, in a house with his disciples.

# Are you also still without understanding?

Jesus uses this question to express his disappointment that they do not understand. This can be expressed as a statement. AT: "After all I have said and done, I would expect you to understand." (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-rquestion]])

# it cannot go into his heart

Here "heart" is a metonym for a person's inner being or mind. Here Jesus means that food does not affect a person's character. AT: "it cannot go into his inner being" or "it cannot go into his mind" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metonymy]])

# Do you not see that whatever enters ... latrine?

Jesus uses this question to teach his disciples something they should already know. It can be expressed as a statement. AT: "Whatever enters ... latrine." (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-rquestion]])

# because it

Here "it" refers to what goes into a person; that is, what a person eats.

# all foods clean

It may be helpful to explain clearly what this phrase means. AT: "all foods clean, meaning that people can eat any food without God considering the eater defiled" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-explicit]])

# translationWords

* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/jesus]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/disciple]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/parable]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/understand]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/defile]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/heart]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/clean]]