# General Information:

Yahweh continues speaking to the people of Jerusalem.

# Why do you weigh out silver for what is not bread?

Yahweh asks this question to rebuke the people. He speaks of the people seeking happiness apart from Yahweh as if they were purchasing things to eat that were not food. AT: "You should not weigh out silver for what is not bread." (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-rquestion]] and [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metaphor]])

# weigh out silver

This refers to counting silver coins in order to pay someone for something. AT: "pay money" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-explicit]])

# for what is not bread

Here the word "bread" represents food in general. It is implied that the people were buying things to eat that were not really food. AT: "for things to eat that are not really food" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-synecdoche]] and [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-explicit]])

# why do you labor for what does not satisfy?

Yahweh asks this question to rebuke the people. He speaks of them seeking happiness apart from Yahweh as if they were working to earn money to buy things that could not satisfy them. AT: "you should not be working for money to spend on things that do not satisfy." (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-rquestion]] and [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metaphor]] and [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-explicit]])

# eat what is good, and delight yourselves in fatness

The people trusting Yahweh for blessing and happiness is spoken of as if they are eating good food that is making them happy. (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metaphor]])

# in fatness

The word "fatness" refers to meat that has plenty of fat on it and is an idiom for fine food. AT: "with the best foods" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-idiom]])