# He subdues peoples under us and nations under our feet

These two phrases are parallel and mean that God enabled Israel to conquer their enemies. (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-parallelism]])

# subdues

to conquer and place under the authority of another

# under us ... under our feet

The writer speaks of conquering other nations as if it were putting those nations underneath their feet. (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metaphor]])

# He chooses our inheritance for us

The writer speaks of the land of Israel as if it were an inheritance that God has given the people as a permanent possession. AT: "He chooses this land as an inheritance for us" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metaphor]])

# the glory of Jacob

Here the word "glory" refers to a source of pride and represents the land that God has given to his people as an inheritance. AT: "the land in which Jacob takes pride" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metonymy]])

# Jacob whom he loved

The word "Jacob" refers to the nation of Israel. (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metonymy]])

# God has gone up with a shout

The writer speaks of God's conquering the nations as if God were a king ascending his throne, which was located in the temple. AT: "God has gone up into the temple as people shouted" or "God has ascended to his throne as people shouted" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metaphor]] and [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-explicit]])

# Yahweh with the sound of a trumpet

This phrase parallels the previous phrase. The verb may be supplied for clarity. AT: "Yahweh has gone up as people blew trumpets" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-parallelism]] and [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-ellipsis]])

# translationWords

* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/nation]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/inherit]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/glory]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/names/jacob]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/love]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/selah]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/god]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/trumpet]]