# May Yahweh, the God of Israel, be praised

This can be stated in active form. AT: "Praise Yahweh, the God of Israel" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-activepassive]])

# David my father

King Solomon actually was one of King David's sons.

# has fulfilled it

"has caused it to happen." The word "it" refers to what God had promised. AT: "has ensured that he fulfilled his promises" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-explicit]])

# with his own hands

The hand is a metonym for power. AT: "by his own power" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metonymy]])

# in order for my name to be there

Here the metonym "my name" represents Yahweh's reputation, and his name being there represents people recognizing his greatness and worshiping him there. AT: "for people to worship me there" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metonymy]])

# to be prince over my people Israel

Being "prince over people" represents ruling them. AT: "to rule my people Israel" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metaphor]])

# so that my name might be there

Here the metonym "my name" represents Yahweh's reputation, and his name being there represents people recognizing his greatness and worshiping him there. AT: "so that people might worship me there" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metonymy]])

# to be over my people Israel

Being "over" people represents ruling them. AT: "to rule my people Israel" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metaphor]])

# translationWords

* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/god]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/israel]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/david]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/peopleofgod]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/egypt]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/tribe]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/name]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/prince]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/elect]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/jerusalem]]