# on the earth, who keeps covenant and steadfast love with your servants

This can be stated as a new sentence. AT: "on the earth. You keep your promise to love your servants" or "on the earth. You faithfully love your servants"

# walk before you with all their heart

The way a person lives is spoken of as if that person were walking on a path. AT: "live wholeheartedly the way that you want them to" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metaphor]])

# you who have kept with your servant David my father, what you promised him

"you who have kept your promise to your servant David my father." To keep a promise is an idiom that means to do what one has promised. AT: "you who have done what you promised your servant David my father" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-idiom]])

# you spoke with your mouth

The phrase "with your mouth" may emphasize that God himself spoke. It was not someone else who made the promise. AT: "you yourself spoke"

# and have fulfilled it with your hand

The hand is a metonym for the power of the hand. AT: "and, by your power, have fulfilled what you said" or "and by your power have done what you said" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metonymy]])

# as it is today

This refers to the day when Solomon was saying this prayer.

# translationWords

* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/god]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/earth]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/covenantfaith]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/servant]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/walk]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/heart]]