# Connecting Statement:

King Solomon continues praying.

# But will God actually live with mankind on the earth?

Possible meanings of this question are 1) Solomon is asking a real question and expecting an answer or 2) the question is rhetorical and Solomon is emphasizing that God is too big and mighty to live on earth. AT: "But it surely cannot be that God will actually live on the earth!" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-rquestion]])

# But will God

Here Solomon speaks about God in the third person to show his great respect for God. It can be stated in the second person. AT: "But will you" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-123person]])

# Look

Here "Look" indicates that he is about to say something important.

# the entire universe and heaven itself cannot contain you

This implies that God is much greater than all the universe and heaven. See how you translated a similar phrase in [2 Chronicles 2:6](../02/06.md). (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-explicit]])

# you—how much less can this temple that I have built

"you, so this temple that I have built certainly cannot contain you"

# this temple that I have built

Solomon speaks of commanding the people to build the temple and telling them how to do it as if he himself had built it. AT: "this temple that your people have built under my leadership" or "this house that I and your people have built" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-synecdoche]])

# respect this prayer of your servant and his request

The words "prayer" and "request" mean basically the same thing and emphasize that he is sincere as he makes his request. Solomon refers to himself as "your servant" to show that he respects Yahweh. This can be stated in first person. AT: "respect me, your servant, as I make this request" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-doublet]] and [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-123person]])

# listen to the cry and prayer that your servant prays before you

The words "cry" and "prayer" mean basically the same thing and emphasize that he is sincere as he asks Yahweh to help him. Solomon refers to himself as "your servant" to show that he respects Yahweh. This can be stated in first person. AT: "listen to me, your servant, as I call for you to help me" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-doublet]] and [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-123person]])

# May your eyes be open toward this temple

The eyes being open is a metonym for watching, and here watching represents protecting. "Please watch over this temple" or "Please protect this temple" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metaphor]])

# day and night

This is a merism. AT: "all the time" or "continually" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-merism]])

# where you promised to put your name

Possible meanings are 1) Yahweh's name represents himself. AT: "where you promised to be" or 2) Yahweh's name represents his reputation. AT: "where you promised to make people know you" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metonymy]])

# the prayer your servant prays toward this place

Solomon refers to himself as "your servant" to show that he respects Yahweh. This can be stated in first person. AT: "the prayer that I, your servant, pray toward this place" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-123person]])