# blight or mildew

These are agricultural terms that refer to the death of crops from either too little or too much rain, respectively.

# locusts or caterpillars

A "locust" is a type of grasshopper that causes destruction by eating crops. The word "caterpillar" refers to an early growth stage of the locust.

# prayers and requests are made by a person or by all your people Israel

This can be stated in active form. AT: "a person, or all your people Israel, prays and makes requests" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-activepassive]])

# prayers and requests

The words "prayers" and "requests" mean basically the same thing and emphasize that the person is sincere as he makes his requests. (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-doublet]])

# knowing the plague and sorrow in his own heart

Here "plague" is a metaphor for sin, and sin and sorrow are spoken of as being in people's hearts. AT: "knowing the sin and sorrow in his own heart" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metaphor]])

# he spreads out his hands toward this temple

This was a way of showing that they were praying to the God of the temple. See how you translated "spread out his hands" in [2 Chronicles 6:12](./12.md). (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/translate-symaction]])

# for all his ways

Here "his ways" represents the person's behavior. AT: "for what he has done" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metaphor]])

# so that they may walk in your ways

Here "walk in your ways" represents living and behaving the way God wants. AT: "so that they may live as you want them to" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metaphor]])

# translationWords

* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/famine]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/locust]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/gate]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/plague]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/heaven]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/forgive]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/know]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/fear]]