# Connecting Statement:

King Solomon continues praying.

# who—because of your great name, your mighty hand, and your outstretched arm—comes

It is implied that the foreigners come because they hear about God's greatness. AT: "who hears about your great name, your mighty hand, and your outstretched arm—if he comes" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-explicit]])

# your great name

Here God's name represents his reputation. AT: "your great reputation" or "your greatness" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metonymy]])

# your mighty hand, and your outstretched arm

These two phrases mean basically the same thing and refer to God's power. (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-doublet]] and [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metonymy]])

# prays toward this house

Praying toward Yahweh's temple shows that one is praying to Yahweh. (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/translate-symaction]])

# may know your name

Here God's name represents his reputation. AT: "may know your reputation" or "may know your greatness" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metonymy]])

# as do your own people Israel

"as your own people Israel know your name and fear you"

# this house I have built is called by your name

The phrase "is called by your name" shows that God possesses and owns the house. This can be stated in active form. AT: "you own this house that I have built" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-activepassive]])

# this house I have built

Solomon speaks of commanding the people to build the temple and telling them how to do it as if he himself had built it. See how you translated a similar phrase in [2 Chronicles 6:18](./18.md). AT: "this house that your people have built under my leadership" or "this house that I and your people have built" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-synecdoche]])