# Connecting Statement:

King Solomon continues praying.

# Suppose they sin ... suppose that you are angry ... suppose they realize ... suppose that they repent ... Suppose that they say ... Suppose that they return ... suppose that they pray

When Solomon was speaking, these hypothetical situations had not happened, but Solomon knew that they might happen in the future. Use the form in your language for talking about events that have not happened but might happen in the future. (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-hypo]])

# hand them over to the enemy

Here "hand them over to the enemy" represents allowing the enemy to capture them. (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metaphor]])

# so that the enemy carries them away

Here "carries them away" represents forcing them to leave their own country. AT: "so that the enemy forces them to leave" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metaphor]])

# where they have been exiled

This can be stated in active form. AT: "where their enemies have taken them as exiles" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-activepassive]])

# seek favor from you

"beg you to be merciful to them"

# We have acted perversely and sinned. We have behaved wickedly

These two sentences mean the same thing. Together they emphasize how bad the people's actions were. (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-parallelism]])

# acted perversely and sinned

The words mean basically the same thing and emphasize how badly the people sinned. (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-doublet]])

# they return to you

Here "return to you" represents submitting to Yahweh again. AT: "they submit to you again" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metaphor]])

# with all their heart and with all their soul

The idioms "with all their heart" means "completely" and "with all their soul" means "with all their being." These two phrases have similar meanings. AT: "completely" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-idiom]] and [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-doublet]])

# where they took them as captives

"where their enemies took them as captives"

# that they pray toward their land

This refers to Israel. Praying toward Israel would show that they were praying to Yahweh, the God of Israel. AT: "that they pray facing their land" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/translate-symaction]])

# toward the city that you chose

This refers to Jerusalem.

# the house that I have built

Solomon speaks of commanding the people to build the temple and telling them how to do it as if he himself had built it. AT: "the house that your people have built under my leadership" or "the house that I and your people have built" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-synecdoche]])

# for your name

Possible meanings are 1) Yahweh's name represents himself. AT: "for you" or 2) Yahweh's name represents his reputation. AT: "for your reputation" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metonymy]])

# to their prayer and to their requests

The words "prayer" and "requests" mean basically the same thing and emphasize that the people are sincere as they make their requests. AT: "their requests" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-doublet]])