# Suppose they sin ... suppose that you are angry ... suppose they realize ... suppose that they repent ... Suppose that they say ... Suppose that they return ... suppose that they pray

When Solomon was speaking, these hypothetical situations had not happened, but Solomon knew that they might happen in the future. Use the form in your language for talking about events that have not happened but might happen in the future. (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-hypo]])

# they return to you

Here "return to you" represents submitting to Yahweh again. Alternate translation: "they submit to you again" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metaphor]])

# with all their heart and with all their soul

The idioms "with all their heart" means "completely" and "with all their soul" means "with all their being." These two phrases have similar meanings. Alternate translation: "completely" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-idiom]] and [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-doublet]])

# where they took them as captives

"where their enemies took them as captives"

# that they pray toward their land

This refers to Israel. Praying toward Israel would show that they were praying to Yahweh, the God of Israel. Alternate translation: "that they pray facing their land" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/translate-symaction]])

# toward the city that you chose

This refers to Jerusalem.

# the house that I have built

Solomon speaks of commanding the people to build the temple and telling them how to do it as if he himself had built it. Alternate translation: "the house that your people have built under my leadership" or "the house that I and your people have built" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-synecdoche]])

# for your name

Possible meanings are 1) Yahweh's name represents himself. Alternate translation: "for you" or 2) Yahweh's name represents his reputation. Alternate translation: "for your reputation" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metonymy]])

