# Now

Here the word "now" is used to draw attention to the important point that follows.

# let your eyes be open

The eyes being open is a metonym for seeing. Here it represents looking attentively. AT: "please pay attention to us" or "please look at us" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metonymy]])

# let your ears be attentive to the prayer

The ears being attentive is a metonym for listening attentively. AT: "please listen to the prayer" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metonymy]])

# to the prayer that is made in this place

This can be expressed in active form. AT: "to the prayer that we make in this place" or "to us as we pray to you in this place" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-activepassive]])

# arise, Yahweh God, to your resting place

This pictures God as if he were sitting on his throne, and asks that he will get up from his throne and come to this place. AT: "arise, Yahweh God, and come to your resting place" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metaphor]])

# the ark of your strength

"the ark, which is a symbol of your power"

# Let your priests ... be clothed with salvation

The abstract noun "salvation" can be translated with the verb "to save." Possible meanings are 1) being clothed with salvation is a metaphor for experiencing salvation. AT: "Let your priests ... know that you have saved them" or 2) being clothed with salvation is a metaphor for demonstrating salvation. AT: "Let your priests ... demonstrate how you save people" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metaphor]] and [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-abstractnouns]])

# do not turn the face of your anointed away from you

Turning the face of someone away represents rejecting him. AT: "do not reject your anointed one" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metaphor]])

# your anointed

"your anointed one." Being anointed is a metonym for being chosen by God. King Solomon may have been speaking specifically about himself. This can be stated in active form. AT: "the one you anointed" or "me, the one you chose to be king" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metonymy]] and [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-activepassive]])

# Keep in mind your acts of covenant loyalty for David, your servant

The phrase "your acts" can be expressed with the phrase "what you have done." AT: "Remember what you have done for David, your servant, because of your covenant loyalty"

# Keep in mind

"Remember"

# translationWords

* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/god]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/raise]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/rest]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/arkofthecovenant]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/priest]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/clothed]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/salvation]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/saint]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/rejoice]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/good]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/turn]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/face]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/anoint]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/mind]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/covenantfaith]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/david]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/servant]]