# General Information:

It is unclear if verses 11-14 are the teaching of Bildad, or if Bildad is quoting the sayings of the ancestors of [Job 8:8-10](./08.md).

# General Information:

In verses 14-18, the pronouns "he" and "his" refer to the godless person who represents godless people in general. It may be helpful to readers to use the plural pronouns "they" and "their." (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-genericnoun]])

# So also are the paths of all who forget God

Here "the paths" represents a person's future and the events that will happen to them. AT: "The same thing will happen to everyone who forgets God" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metonymy]])

# the hope of the godless will perish

"the things the godless person desires will not happen"

# His confidence will break apart ... his trust is as weak as a spider's web

These two phrases mean the same thing and emphasize that the godless person is trusting in something that cannot save him. (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-parallelism]])

# his trust is as weak as a spider's web

Here Bildad compares the trust of the godless person to a spider's web; the slightest force will break both. (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-simile]])

# He leans on his house, but it will not support him; he takes hold of it, but it does not stand

This statement probably refers to a man relying on his property and wealth for security. If so, then "house" here represents the owner's property and wealth. AT: "He thinks he will be safe because he is wealthy, but he will not be safe" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metaphor]])

# it will not support him

This negative statement emphasizes the opposite. It can be stated in positive form. AT: "he will fall down" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-litotes]])

# it does not stand

This negative statement emphasizes the opposite. It can be stated in positive form. AT: "it will fall down" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-litotes]])

# translationWords

* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/god]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/hope]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/ungodly]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/perish]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/confidence]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/trust]]