# General Information:

See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/writing-poetry]] and [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-parallelism]]

# I have come

It is clearly the woman's lover who is speaking.

# have come into my garden

The word "garden" is a metaphor for the woman. The man is finally able to fully enjoy the woman as they make love. (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metaphor]] and [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-euphemism]])

# my sister

This is an idiom of affection. They are not actually brother and sister. See how you translated this in [Song of Songs 4:9](../04/08.md). AT: "my dear" or "my darling" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-idiom]])

# my bride

This Hebrew word can refer to a woman who is married or to one whom a man has arranged to become his son's wife. If your language has a polite word that a man would use to his wife and that has not been used yet in this book, you could use it here. Otherwise you could use any polite term a man would use with his wife. See how you translated this in [Song of Songs 4:9](../04/08.md).

# myrrh ... spice ... honeycomb ... honey ... wine ... milk

These are all metaphors for the man enjoying the woman's body ([Song of Songs 1:13](../01/12.md), [Song of Songs 2:04](../02/03.md), [Song of Songs 4:11](../04/10.md), and [Song of Songs 4:14](../04/12.md)). (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metaphor]])

# spice

plants that have a strong smell or taste

# Eat ... drink ... be drunk with love

Eating and drinking are metaphors for making love. AT: "Make love ... make love ... make love until you are fully satisfied" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metaphor]])

