# "I have taken off my robe ... dirty?"

This is what the woman thought to herself when she heard the man speak. ([Song of Songs 5:2](./02.md)). This could be translated with the woman saying that this is what she was thinking, or the woman could just explain the situation and her thoughts as in the UDB. AT: "I thought to myself, 'I have taken off my robe ... dirty?'" or "I had taken off my robe and I did not want to put it on again. I had washed my feet and I did not want to get them dirty." (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-quotations]])

# robe

thin linen clothing that people wore on their skin

# must I put it on again?

This can be translated as a statement. AT: "I do not want to put it on again." (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-rquestion]])

# I have washed my feet

While the word "feet" can be a euphemism for private parts, this probably refers to literal feet. The woman seems more likely to want to make love than to want to refrain from lovemaking because she has just bathed. (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-euphemism]])

# must I get them dirty?

This can be translated as a statement. AT: "I do not want to get them dirty."

# My beloved put in his hand through the opening of the door latch

Possible interpretations are 1) literal, the lover reaches into the house through a hole in the door in order to open the door or 2) euphemisic, they have begun to make love. (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-euphemism]])

# My beloved

This phrase refers to the man whom the woman loves. In some languages it may be more natural for her to refer to him as "my lover." See how you translated this in [Song of Songs 1:13](./12.md). AT: "My dear one" or "My lover"

# door latch

"door lock"

# translationWords

* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/robe]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/beloved]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/heart]]