# Connecting Statement:

Paul encourages Timothy to reject the wrong use of the law and use good teaching from God.

# General Information:

The word "you" in this letter is singular and refers to Timothy. (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-you]])

# As I urged you

"As I pleaded with you" or "As I asked you very strongly"

# remain in Ephesus

"wait for me there in the city of Ephesus"

# a different doctrine

The implied information can be stated explicitly. AT: "a different doctrine from what we teach" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-explicit]])

# Neither should they pay attention

The understood information can be stated clearly. AT: "And I also want you to command them not to pay attention" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-ellipsis]])

# to stories

These may have been stories about their ancestors.

# endless genealogies

With the word "endless" Paul uses exaggeration to emphasize that the genealogies are very long. (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-hyperbole]])

# genealogies

"lists of ancestors." A genealogy is the written or verbal record of a person's parents and ancestors. These were very important in Israel, as they established which tribe one was included in the people of Israel.

# These cause arguments

"These make people angrily disagree." The people debated about stories and genealogies about which no one could know the truth for certain.

# rather than helping the plan of God, which is by faith

Possible meanings are 1) "rather than helping us to understand God's plan to save us, which we learn by faith" or 2) "rather than helping us to do God's work, which we do by faith."

# translationWords

* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/names/macedonia]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/names/ephesus]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/command]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/teach]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/doctrine]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/faith]]