# Connecting Statement:

Paul tells how he acted in the past and encourages Timothy to trust God.

# he considered me faithful

"he considered me trustworthy" or "he regarded me as reliable"

# he placed me into service

Paul speaks of the task of serving God as if it were a place that one could be placed in. AT: "he assigned me to serve him" or "he appointed me as his servant" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metaphor]])

# I was a blasphemer

"I was a person who spoke evil against Christ." Paul is referring to his character before he was a Christian.

# a persecutor

"a person who persecuted those who believed in Christ"

# violent man

"a person was cruel towards other people." This is a person who believes he has the right to hurt others.

# But I received mercy because I acted ignorantly in unbelief

"But because I did not believe in Jesus, and I did not know what I was doing, I received mercy from Jesus"

# I received mercy

"Jesus showed me mercy" or "Jesus had mercy on me"

# But the grace

"And the grace"

# the grace of our Lord overflowed

Paul speaks of God's grace as if it were a liquid that could fill a container and spill out of the top when the container is full. AT: "God showed me much grace" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metaphor]])

# with faith and love

This is the result of God showing much grace to Paul. AT: "which caused me to trust in Jesus and love him"

# that is in Christ Jesus

This speaks about Jesus as if he were a container that holds a liquid. Here "in Christ Jesus" refers to having a relationship with Jesus. AT: "that Christ Jesus enables me to give to God because I am united to him" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metaphor]])

# translationWords

* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/jesus]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/lord]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/faithful]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/blasphemy]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/persecute]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/receive]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/mercy]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/believe]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/grace]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/faith]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/love]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/inchrist]]