# I am placing this command before you

Paul speaks of his instructions as if he could physically put them in front of Timothy. AT: "I am entrusting you with this command" or "This is what I am commanding you" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metaphor]])

# my child

Paul speaks of his close relationship to Timothy as though Paul is the father and Timothy is the child. It is also likely that Timothy was converted to Christ by Paul, and so this is why Paul considered him like his own child. AT: "who is truly like my child" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metaphor]])

# in accordance with the prophecies previously made about you

This can be stated in active form. AT: "in agreement with what other believers prophesied about you" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-activepassive]])

# fight the good fight

Paul speaks about Timothy working for the Lord as if he were a soldier fighting a battle. AT: "continue to work hard for the Lord" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metaphor]])

# a good conscience

"a conscience that chooses right instead wrong." See how you translated this in [1 Timothy 1:5](./05.md).

# some have shipwrecked their faith

Paul speaks of these people's faith as if it were a ship that could be wrecked at sea. He means that they have ruined their faith and no longer believe in Jesus. You should use this or a similar metaphor if it will be understood in the project language. (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metaphor]])

# Hymenaeus ... Alexander

These are names of men. (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/translate-names]])

# whom I gave over to Satan

Paul speaks as if he physically handed these men to Satan. This probably means that Paul rejected them from the community of believers. Since they are no longer a part of the community, Satan can have power of them and harm them. (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metaphor]])

# they may be taught

This can be stated in active form. AT: "that God may teach them" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-activepassive]])

# translationWords

* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/timothy]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/prophet]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/faith]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/conscience]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/reject]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/satan]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/blasphemy]]