# Hear this word

"Hear this message" or "Listen to this message"

# that Yahweh has spoken against you ... against the whole family

"this word that Yahweh has spoken about you ... about the whole family" or "Yahweh's message about you ... about the whole family"

# you, people of Israel ... the whole family that I brought up out of the land of Egypt

These two phrases refer to the same group of people. The people God is speaking to are the descendants of those he had taken out of Egypt.

# the whole family

Here "the whole family" represents to the whole nation. The people of Israel were all descendants of Jacob. AT: "the whole nation" or "the whole clan" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metonymy]])

# I have chosen only you from all the families of the earth

This implies that they should have obeyed him. This can be stated clearly. AT: "I have chosen only you from all the families of the earth, so you should have obeyed me" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-explicit]])

# all the families of the earth

Here "families" represents nations or people groups. AT: "all the nations of the earth" or "all the clans on the earth" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metonymy]])

# Therefore I will punish you for all your sins

It can be stated clearly that they did not obey God. AT: "But you did not obey me. Therefore I will punish you for all your sins" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-explicit]])

# translationWords

* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/word]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/yahweh]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/israel]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/family]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/egypt]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/elect]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/punish]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/sin]]