# General Information:

Amos uses the questions in verses 3-6 to present examples of things that people already know about what causes things to happen and what are the results of things that happen. (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-rquestion]])

# Can a bird fall in a trap on the ground when no bait is set for him?

Amos uses this question to remind people of what they already know about what causes a bird to fall into a trap. This can be translated as a statement. AT: "A bird can fall into a trap on the ground only when bait has been set for him." (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-rquestion]])

# Will a trap spring up from the ground when it has not caught anything?

Amos uses this question to remind people of what they already know about what causes a trap to spring up. This question can be translated as a statement. AT: "A trap will spring up from the ground only when it has caught something." (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-rquestion]])

# Will a trap spring up from the ground

This refers to a trap closing. When an animal steps on a trap, the trap closes and the animal cannot get out of it. AT: "Will a trap close"

# If a trumpet sounds in a city, will the people not tremble?

Amos uses this question to remind people of what they already know about what happens when a trumpet sounds. This question can be translated as a statement. AT: "When the trumpet sounds in the city, the people will tremble." or "When the trumpet sounds in the city, we expect that people will tremble." (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-rquestion]])

# If a trumpet sounds in a city

The purpose of sounding the trumpet is to warn people that enemies are about to attack the city. AT: "If someone blows the trumpet in the city to warn the people about an enemy attack" or "If the warning trumpet is blown in the city" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-explicit]])

# tremble

The reason for trembling can be stated clearly. AT: "tremble because they are afraid" or "be afraid of the enemy and tremble" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-explicit]])

# If disaster overtakes a city, has Yahweh not sent it

Amos uses this question to remind the people of what they should already know about what causes a disaster. This question can be translated as a statement. AT: "If disaster overtakes a city, Yahweh has sent it." or "If disaster overtakes a city, we know that Yahweh has sent it" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-rquestion]])

# If disaster overtakes a city,

Something terrible happening to a city is spoken of as if disaster overtakes it. (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metaphor]])

# translationWords

* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/trumpet]]