# Assemble yourselves

This command is to Israel's enemies in Ashdod and Egypt.

# this is Yahweh's declaration

"this is what Yahweh has declared" or "this is what Yahweh has solemnly said." This phrase expresses the certainty of everything else in the message.

# see what great confusion is in her

The word "her" refers to the city of Samaria. Cities were often spoken of as if they were women. (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-personification]])

# what great confusion is in her

Here "great confusion is in her" refers to people's fear because of the fighting and rioting there. The word "confusion" can be translated with a verbal phrase to make this meaning explicit. AT: "how the people in Samaria riot" or "how the people in Samaria fight against one another" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-explicit]] and [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-abstractnouns]])

# what oppression is in her

Here "oppression is in her" refers to leaders in Samaria oppressing the people. The abstract noun "oppress" can be stated as "oppress" or "cause to suffer." AT: "how the leaders oppress people" or "and how they cause people to suffer" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-abstractnouns]])

# For they do not know how to do right

The word "they" refers to the people of Samaria.

# They store up violence and destruction

Here "violence and destruction" represent things they have taken by being violent and destructive. AT: "They store up things that they have violently stolen from others" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metonymy]])

# translationWords

* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/proclaim]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/stronghold]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/names/ashdod]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/names/egypt]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/names/samaria]]