# Therefore, this is what the Lord Yahweh says

It can be stated clearly who God was saying this to. AT: "Therefore, this is what the Lord Yahweh says to the people of Israel living in Samaria" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-explicit]])

# An enemy will surround the land

"An enemy army will surround the land"

# plunder your fortresses

"steal all the things in your fortresses"

# As the shepherd rescues ... so will the people of Israel ... be rescued

The Lord compares the people of Israel being rescued with an unsuccessful attempt to rescue an animal from a lion. They will not be completely rescued. (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-simile]])

# As the shepherd rescues out of the mouth of the lion two legs only, or a piece of an ear

It can be stated clearly that the shepherd tries to rescue the whole animal. AT: "As the shepherd tries to rescue an animal from the lion's mouth, but is able to save only two legs or a piece of an ear" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-explicit]])

# As the shepherd ... the lion

Here the phrases "the shepherd" and "the lion" refer to any shepherd or lion. AT: "As a shepherd ... a lion" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-genericnoun]])

# they will be left with only the corner of a couch or a piece of a bed

This phrase shows that they will not be completely rescued. Almost all of their possessions will be stolen. This passage in Hebrew is difficult to understand, and some modern versions interpret it differently.

# couch

This is a soft chair big enough to lie down on.

# translationWords

* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/lordyahweh]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/adversary]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/stronghold]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/shepherd]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/lion]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/israel]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/samaria]]