# days of weeping

"days of mourning him" or "days of weeping for him"

# Joseph spoke to the house of Pharaoh

Here "house of Pharaoh" stands for the officials that make up Pharaoh's royal court. AT: "Joseph spoke to Pharaoh's officials" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metonymy]])

# If now I have found favor in your eyes

The phrase "find favor" is an idiom which means to be approved of by someone. Also, the eyes represent seeing, and seeing represents thoughts or judgment. AT: "If I have found favor with you" or "If you are pleased with me" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-idiom]] and [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metaphor]])

# please speak to Pharaoh, saying, 'My father made me swear, saying, "See, I am about to die. Bury me in my tomb that I dug for myself in the land of Canaan. There you will bury me." Now let me go up and bury my father, and then I will return.'

This has a two level quotation and three level quotation. These can be stated as indirect quotations. AT: "please tell Pharaoh that my father made me swear that after he dies I would bury him in the tomb that he dug for himself in the land of Canaan. Please ask Pharaoh to let me go bury my father, and then I will return" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-quotesinquotes]] and [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-quotations]])

# See, I am about to die

"See, I am dying"

# let me go up

It was common to use the phrase "go up" when speaking of traveling from Egypt to Canaan.

# Pharaoh answered

It is implied that the members of the court spoke to Pharaoh, and now Pharaoh is replying to Joseph. (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-explicit]])

# as he made you swear

"as you swore to him"

# translationWords

* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/names/pharaoh]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/royal]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/favor]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/oath]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/bury]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/tomb]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/names/canaan]]