# Connecting Statement:

The three-level quotation that began with the words "Joseph spoke ... saying" in verse 4 continues. The second level of that quotation, which began with the words "If now I have found favor in your eyes, please speak to Pharaoh, saying" in verse 4 continues.

# My father made me swear, saying, "See, I am about to die. Bury me in my tomb that I dug for myself in the land of Canaan. There you will bury me." Now let me go up ... I will return.

This is the second level of the three-level quotation that begins with the words "If now I have" in verse 4. It contains a quote within it. This embedded quote can be translated as an indirect quote. "My father made me swear, saying that he was about to die and that I was to bury him in his tomb that he dug for himself in the land of Canaan. I was to bury him there. Now let me go up ... I will return." The entire second-level quotation can also be translated as an indirect quote. "If now I have found favor in your eyes, please speak to Pharaoh and tell him that my father made me swear, saying that he was about to die and that I was to bury him in his tomb that he dug for himself in the land of Canaan. I was to bury him there. Now let me go up ... I will return."  (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-quotesinquotes]] and [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-quotations]])

# See, I am about to die ... you will bury me

This is the third level of the three-level quotation that begins with the words "If now I have" in verse 4.

# See, I am about to die

"See, I am dying"

# let me go up

It was common to use the phrase "go up" when speaking of traveling from Egypt to Canaan.

