# What if Joseph holds on to anger against us

Here anger is spoken of as if it was something physical that Joseph could hold in his hands. AT: "What if Joseph is actually still angry with us" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metaphor]])

# wants to repay us in full for all the evil we did to him

Avenging oneself against someone who harmed him is spoken of as if the person were paying they other person what they are owed. AT: "wants revenge for the evil thing we did to him" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metaphor]])

# Your father gave instructions before he died, saying, 'Tell Joseph this, "Please forgive the transgression of your brothers and their sin when they did evil to you."'

This has a two level quotation and a three level quotation. They can be stated as indirect quotations. AT: "Your father instructed us before he died to tell you to forgive us for the evil thing we did to you" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-quotesinquotes]] and [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-quotations]])

# Your father gave instructions before he died, saying

Jacob was the father of all the brothers. Here they say "your father" to emphasize that Joseph needs to pay attention to what his father said. AT: "Before our father died he said"

# and their sin when they did evil to you

"for the wicked things they did to you"

# Now

This does not mean "at this moment," but is used to draw attention to the important point that follows.

# please forgive the servants of the God of your father

The brothers are referring to themselves as "the servants of the God of your father." This can be stated in first person. AT: "please forgive us, the servants of the God of our father" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-123person]])

# Joseph wept when they spoke to him

"Joseph wept when he heard this message"