# went to Beersheba

"came to Beersheba"

# Here I am

"Yes, I am listening"

# to go down to Egypt

It was common to use the phrase "go down" when speaking of traveling from Canaan to Egypt.

# I will make you a great nation

The "you" is singular and refers to Jacob. Here Jacob refers to his descendants that will become a large nation. AT: "I will give you many descendants, and they will become a great nation" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-you]] and [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metonymy]])

# into Egypt

"to Egypt"

# I will surely bring you up again

The promise was made to Jacob, but the promise would be fulfilled to all of Israel's descendants. AT: "I will surely bring your descendants out of Egypt again" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-you]] and [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metonymy]])

# bring you up again

It was common to use the word "up" when speaking about traveling from Egypt to Canaan.

# Joseph will close your eyes with his own hand

The phrase "close you eyes with his own hand" is a way of saying that Joseph will be present when Israel dies and it will be Joseph who will close Jacob's eyelids at the time of his death. AT: "Joseph will even be present with you at the time of your death" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-idiom]])

# will close your eyes

It was a custom to pull down the eyelids when a person died with their eyes open. The full meaning of this statement can be made explicit. (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-explicit]])

# translationWords

* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/names/jacob]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/names/beersheba]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/sacrifice]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/god]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/names/isaac]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/vision]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/fear]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/names/egypt]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/nation]]