# Connecting Statement:

James warns rich people about their focus on pleasure and riches.

# you who are rich

Possible meanings are 1) James is giving a strong warning to wealthy believers or 2) James is talking about wealthy unbelievers. AT: "you who are rich and say you honor God" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-explicit]])

# because of the miseries coming on you

James states that these people will suffer terribly in the future and writes as if their sufferings were objects that were coming toward them. The abstract noun "miseries" can be translated as a verb. AT: "because you will suffer terribly in the future" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-abstractnouns]])

# Your riches have rotted, and your clothes have become moth-eaten. Your gold and your silver have become tarnished

Earthly riches do not last nor do they have any eternal value. James speaks of these events as if they had already happened. AT: "Your riches will rot, and your clothes will be eaten by moths. Your gold and silver will become tarnished" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-pastforfuture]])

# riches ... clothes ... gold ... silver

These things are mentioned as examples of things that are valuable to wealthy people.

# have become tarnished ... their rust

These phrases are used here to describe how gold and silver are ruined. AT: "are ruined ... their ruined condition" or "are corroded ... their corrosion"

# their rust will be a witness against you. It

James wrote of their valuable things being ruined as if they were a person in a courtroom accusing the wicked of their crimes. AT: "and when God judges you, your ruined treasures will be like someone who accuses you in court. Their corrosion" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-personification]] and [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-explicit]] )

# will consume ... like fire

Here the corrosion is spoken of as if it were a fire that will burn up their owners. (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-simile]] and [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metaphor]])

# your flesh

Here "flesh" stands for the physical body. (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metonymy]])

# fire

The idea of fire here is meant to lead people to remember that fire often stands for God's punishment that will come on all the wicked. (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metaphor]])

# for the last days

This refers to the time right before God comes to judge all people. The wicked think they are storing up riches for the future, but what they are doing is storing up judgment. AT: "for when God is about to judge you" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metonymy]])

# translationWords

* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/testimony]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/lastday]]