# Is anyone among you suffering hardship? Let him pray

James uses this question to cause the readers to reflect on their need. This can be translated as a statement. AT: "If anyone is enduring troubles, he should pray" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-rquestion]])

# Is anyone cheerful? Let him sing praise

James uses this question to cause the readers to reflect on their blessings. This can be translated as a statement. AT: "If anyone is happy, he should sing songs of praise" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-rquestion]])

# Is anyone among you sick? Let him call

James uses this question to cause the readers to reflect on their need. This can be translated as a statement. AT: "If anyone is sick, he should call" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-rquestion]])

# in the name of the Lord
"Name" is a metonym for the person of Jesus Christ. AT: "by the authority of the Lord" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metonomy]])

# The prayer of faith will heal the sick person

The writer speaks of God hearing believers pray for sick people and healing those people as if the prayers themselves healed the people. AT: "The Lord will hear the prayer of faith and will heal the sick person" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metonomy]])

# The prayer of faith

"The prayer made by believers" or "The prayer that people pray believing God will do as they ask"

# the Lord will raise him up

"the Lord will make him well" or "the Lord will enable him to resume his normal life"

# translationWords

* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/suffer]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/pray]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/praise]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/elder]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/church]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/anoint]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/oil]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/name]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/lord]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/faith]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/sin]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/god]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/forgive]]