# the whole clan

"my entire family"

# your servant

To show respect for the king the woman refers to herself as "your servant."

# put him to death

This is an idiom which means to kill. Alternate translation: "kill him" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-idiom]])

# they would also destroy the heir

If they put the guilty brother to death there would not be a son left to inherit the family's possessions. The full meaning of this statement can be made clear. Alternate translation: "if they did this, they would be destroying our family's heir" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-explicit]])

# Thus they will put out the burning coal that I have left

Here the woman refers to her only living son as if he were a burning piece of coal. She speaks of the men killing her son as stopping the coal's burning. Alternate translation: "In this way they will kill the only child I have left" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metaphor]])

# they will leave for my husband neither name nor descendant

This can be stated in positive form. Alternate translation: "they will not leave for my husband name or descendant" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-doublenegatives]])

# neither name nor descendant

This refers to a son to carry on the family's name into the next generation. Alternate translation: "no son to preserve our family's name" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metonymy]])

# on the surface of the earth

"on the earth." This descriptive phrase emphasizes that the family line would not continue on earth after the husband died. "The surface of the earth" refers to the ground on which people walk.

