# says anything to you

Here speaking threats is spoken of as speaking in general. AT: "threatens you" or "speaks threats to you" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-synecdoche]])

# he will not touch you anymore

Here David speaks of a person not threatening or hurting her, by saying that the person would not touch her. It is implied that David will not allow the person threatening her to bother her again. The full meaning of this statement can be made clear. AT: "I will make sure he does not threaten you again" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metaphor]] and [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-explicit]])

# Please, may the king call to mind Yahweh your God

Possible meanings are 1) The phrase "call to mind" is an idiom meaning to pray. AT: "Please, pray to Yahweh your God" or 2) Here "call to mind" means to remember and it is implied that after he remembers Yahweh he will promise in his name. AT: "Please promise in the name of Yahweh your God" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-idiom]] and [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-explicit]])

# the avenger of blood

This refers to the man who wants to avenge the death of the dead brother. This can be stated clearly. AT: "the man who wants to avenge my son's brother's death" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-explicit]])

# destroy anyone further

"cause anyone else to die." This is in addition to the brother who already died.

# that they will not destroy my son

"that they will not kill my son" or "that they will not execute my son"

# As Yahweh lives

Often people would make promises and compare how surely they would fulfil their promise to how surely Yahweh is alive. AT: "I promise you, as surely as Yahweh lives" or "In Yahweh's name I promise" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-simile]] and [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-explicit]])

# not one hair of your son will fall to the ground

The means that her son will not be harmed, which is exaggerated by saying that he will not lose even a single hair. AT: "your son will be completely safe" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-hyperbole]])

# translationWords

* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/call]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/mind]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/yahweh]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/god]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/avenge]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/blood]]