# your servant

To show respect for the king the woman refers to herself as "your servant."

# speak a further word to

"talk about something else to." The woman is requesting to speak to the king about another topic.

# Speak on

This is an idiom. The king was giving her permission to continue speaking. AT: "You may speak to me" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-idiom]])

# Why then have you devised such a thing against the people of God?

The woman asks this rhetorical question to rebuke David for how he has treated Absalom. This question can be written as a statement. AT: "What you have just said proved that you did wrong." (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-rquestion]])

# the king is like someone who is guilty

The woman compares the king to someone who is guilty to suggest that he is guilty without saying it directly. AT: "the king has declared himself guilty"

# his banished son

"his son whom he banished"

# For we all must die, and we are like water spilled on the ground ... up again

Here the woman speaks of a person dying as if they were water being spilled on the ground. AT: "We all must die, and after we die we cannot be brought back to life again" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-simile]])

# God ... finds a way for those who were driven away to be restored

The woman is implying that David should bring his son back to himself. This can be stated clearly. AT: "God brings back someone whom he has driven away and you should do the same for your son" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-explicit]])

# translationWords

* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/peopleofgod]]