# Connecting Statement:

Paul continues to encourage the believers in Colossae and Laodicea to understand that Christ is God and that he lives in believers, so they should live in the same way they received him.

# how great a struggle I have had for you

Paul has exerted much effort in developing their purity and understanding of the gospel.

# those at Laodicea

This was a city very close to Colossae where there was also a church for which Paul was praying.

# as many as have not seen my face in the flesh

Here "face in the flesh" represents the person as a whole. AT: "all those who have never seen me personally" or "all those whom I have never met face to face" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-synecdoche]])

# so that their hearts

Paul includes the Galatians even though he uses a different pronoun. AT: "so that their hearts and yours" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-pronouns]])

# brought together

This means brought together in a close relationship.

# all the riches of full assurance of understanding

Paul speaks of a person who is completely sure that the good news is true as though that person were rich in physical things. (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metaphor]])

# the secret truth of God

This is knowledge that can be revealed only by God.

# that is, Christ

Jesus Christ is the secret truth revealed by God.

# In him all the treasures of wisdom and knowledge are hidden

Only Christ can reveal God's true wisdom and knowledge. This can be stated in active form. AT: "God has hidden all the treasures of wisdom and knowledge in Christ" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-activepassive]])

# the treasures of wisdom and knowledge

Paul speaks of God's wisdom and knowledge as if they were material wealth. AT: "the very precious wisdom and knowledge" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metaphor]])

# wisdom and knowledge

These words mean basically the same thing here. Paul uses them together to emphasize that all spiritual understanding comes from Christ. (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-doublet]])

# translationWords

* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/love]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/god]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/christ]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/wise]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/know]]