# You have been filled in him

Paul speaks of people as though they were containers into which God has placed Christ. AT: "You are made complete in Christ" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metaphor]])

# who is the head over every power and authority

Christ is the ruler over every other ruler (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metaphor]])

# In him you were also circumcised

Paul is speaking of those who belong to Christ as if they were inside Christ's body. This can also be made active. AT: "When you joined the church in baptism, God circumcised you" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metaphor]] and [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-activepassive]])

# a circumcision not done by humans

With this metaphor, Paul says that God has made Christian believers acceptable to himself in a way that reminded him of circumcision, the ceremony through which Hebrew male babies were added to the community of Israel. (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metaphor]])

# You were buried with him in baptism

Paul speaks of being baptized and joining the assembly of believers as if it were being buried with Christ. This can be made active. AT: "God buried you with Christ when you joined the church in baptism" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metaphor]] and [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-activepassive]])

# in him you were raised up

With this metaphor, Paul speaks of the new spiritual life of believers, made possible because God made Christ come alive again. This can be made active. AT: "because you have joined yourself to Christ, God raised you up" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metaphor]] and [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-activepassive]])

# translationWords

* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/head]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/authority]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/circumcise]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/baptize]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/raise]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/faith]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/power]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/god]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/death]]