# Let no one ... judge you out of your prize

Here Paul refers to false teachers as if they were corrupt judges at an athletic contest who would unjustly disqualify the believers from winning the prizes they deserve, and he speaks of Christ saving a person as if Christ were giving a prize to the winner of such a contest. AT: "Let no one ... disqualify you from winning a prize" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metaphor]])

# who wants humility

The word "humility" is a metonym for actions one does to make others think that one is humble. AT: "who wants you to do things to show that you are humble" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metonymy]])

# enters into the things he has seen

Here Paul speaks about people who claim to have dreams and visions from God and who talk proudly about them. (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metaphor]])

# becomes puffed up by his fleshly thinking

Here Paul says that sinful ways of thinking make a person arrogant. AT: "puffs himself up by means of his fleshly thinking" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-activepassive]])

# puffed up

Here a person who boasts is spoken of as if he were an object into which someone had blown air to make it larger than it should be. (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metaphor]])

# his fleshly thinking

Here the idea of flesh stands for the sinful human nature. "the sinful thoughts he naturally thinks" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metaphor]])

# He does not hold on to the head

A person not trusting in Christ is spoken of has if they do not hold firmly to the head. Christ is spoken of as if he were the head of a body. AT: "He does not firmly grasp Christ, who is like the head of a body" or "He does not cling to Christ, who is like the head of a body" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metaphor]])

# It is from the head that the whole body throughout its joints and ligaments is supplied and held together

Paul speaks of the church, which is ruled and empowered by Christ, as if it were a human body. AT: "It is from the head that God supplies the whole body throughout its joints and ligaments and holds it together" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metaphor]])