# Who has ... down? Who has ... hands? Who has ... cloak? Who has ... earth?

The writer asks these questions to get the reader thinking about how much greater Yahweh is than people. AT: "No person has ever ... down. No person has ever ... hands. No person has ever ... cloak. No person has ever ... earth." or "Who has ... down? Who has ... hands? Who has ... cloak? Who has ... earth? No one has ever done any of these things." (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-rquestion]])

# heaven

where God lives

# gathered up the wind in the hollow of his hands

The writer speaks of the wind as if it were something that a person could catch and hold in his hand. AT: "has caught the wind in his hands" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metaphor]])

# the hollow of his hands

the way his hands are shaped when he is scooping up, for example, water or sand. "his cupped hands"

# gathered up

brought small scattered objects into a pile so they can be lifted

# has established all the ends of the earth

"has set up the limits for where the earth ends" or "has marked the boundaries for the ends of the earth"

# What is his name, and what is the name of his son?

The writer uses these questions to command the reader to give an answer. AT: "Tell me his name and the name of his son, if you know them." (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-rquestion]])

# Surely you know!

The writer uses irony to show that neither he nor the reader know any person who can do what the "who" in the earlier questions can do. AT: "I do not think you really know anyone who can do those things." (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-irony]])