# The leech has two daughters

This is an example of something that always wants more. AT: "Greed has two daughters" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metaphor]])

# leech

a type of worm that attaches itself to the skin and sucks blood

# "Give and give" they cry

Another possible meaning is "and they are both named Give Me."

# There are three things that are never satisfied, four that never say, "Enough"

This use of the numbers "three" and "four" together here is likely a poetic device. AT: "There are four things that are never satisfied, who never say, 'Enough'" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/writing-poetry]])

# are never satisfied

This can be stated positively. AT: "always want more" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-litotes]])

# land that is never satisfied with water

Land that is no longer producing food because there has been no rain is spoken of as if it were a person who does not have enough water to drink. (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-personification]])

# scorns obedience to a mother

The word "obedience" is a metonym for the mother herself. It is also an abstract noun that can be stated as "obey." AT: "considers his mother worthless and will not obey her" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-abstractnouns]] and [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metonymy]])

# his eyes ... the vultures

The writer says that the person will die by giving two pictures of what happens to people who die away from where people live.

# his eyes will be pecked out by the ravens of the valley

This can be translated in active form. AT: "the ravens of the valley will peck out his eyes" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-activepassive]])

# ravens

large, shiny, black birds that eat plants and dead animals

# he will be eaten by the vultures

This can be translated in active form. AT: "the vultures will eat him" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-activepassive]])

# vultures

any one of several large birds that eat dead animals and have small, featherless heads

# translationWords

* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/hades]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/barren]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/womb]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/mock]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/obey]]