# Connecting Statement:

Because of this great number of Old Testament believers, the author talks of the life of faith that believers should live with Jesus as their example.

# General Information:

The words "we" and "us" refer to the author and his readers. The word "you" is plural and here refers to the readers. (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-inclusive]] and [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-you]])

# we are surrounded by such a large cloud of witnesses

The writer speaks about the Old Testament believers as if they were a cloud that surrounded the present-day believers. This can be stated in active form. AT: "such a large cloud of witnesses surrounds us" or "there are so many examples of faithful people about whom we learn in the scriptures" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metaphor]] and [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-activepassive]])

# witnesses

Here "witnesses" refers to the Old Testament believers in chapter 11 who lived before the race of faith that believers now run.

# let us lay aside every weight and easily entangling sin

Here "weight" and "easily entangling sin" are spoken of as if a person could take them off himself and put them down. (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metaphor]])

# every weight

Attitudes or habits that keep believers from trusting and obeying God are spoken of as if they were loads that would make it difficult for a person to carry while running. (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metaphor]])

# easily entangling sin

Sin is spoken of as if it were a net or something else that can trip people up and make them fall. AT: "sin that makes obeying God difficult" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metaphor]])

# Let us patiently run the race that is placed before us

Following Jesus is spoken of as if it were running a race. AT: "Let us continue obeying what God has commanded us, just like a runner keeps going until the race is over" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metaphor]])

# the founder and perfecter of the faith

Jesus gives us faith and makes our faith perfect by causing us to reach our goal. AT: "creator and finisher of our faith" or "the one who enables us to have faith from beginning to end"

# For the joy that was placed before him

The joy that Jesus would experience is spoken of as if God the Father had placed it before him as a goal to reach. (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metaphor]])

# despised its shame

This means he was not concerned about the shame of dying on a cross.

# sat down at the right hand

Here "right hand" refers to a place of honor. See how you translated this in [Hebrews 1:3](../01/01.md). AT: "he sat down in the place of honor" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metonymy]])

# of the throne of God

Here "throne" refers to God's rule as king. AT: "of God who is king" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metonymy]])

# weary in your hearts

Here "hearts" represents a person's thoughts and emotions. AT: "discouraged" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metonymy]])