# Connecting Statement:

The author of Hebrews has been comparing the Christian life to a race.

# You have not yet resisted or struggled against sin

Here "sin" is spoken of as if it were a person whom someone fights in a battle. AT: "You have not yet had to endure attacks of sinners" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-personification]])

# to the point of blood

Resisting opposition so much that one dies for it is spoken of as if one reached a certain place where he would die. (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metaphor]])

# of blood

Here "blood" refers to death. AT: "of death" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metonymy]])

# the encouragement that instructs you

Old Testament scripture is spoken of as if it were a person who could encourage others. AT: "what God has instructed you in the scriptures to encourage you" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-personification]])

# as sons ... My son ... every son

These refer to everyone who belongs to God whether male or female. AT: "as children ... My child ... every child" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-gendernotations]])

# My son ... corrected by him

Here the author is quoting from the book of Proverbs in the Old Testament.

# do not think lightly of the Lord's discipline, nor grow weary

This can be stated in positive form. AT: "take it very seriously when the Lord disciplines you, and do not grow weary" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-litotes]])

# nor grow weary

"and do not become discouraged"

# you are corrected by him

This can be stated in active form. AT: "he corrects you" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-activepassive]])

# every son whom he receives

"everyone whom he accepts as his child"