# How much more should we submit to the Father of spirits and live!

The author uses an exclamation to emphasize that we should obey God the Father. This can be expressed as a statement. AT: "Therefore even more so, we should obey the Father of spirits and live." (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-exclamations]])

# the Father of spirits

This idiom contrasts with "fathers in the flesh." AT: "our spiritual Father" or "our Father in heaven" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-idiom]])

# and live

"so that we will live"

# so that we can share in his holiness

This metaphor speaks of "holiness" as if it were an object that can be shared among people. AT: "so that we may become holy as God is holy" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metaphor]])

# peaceful fruit

Here "fruit" is a metaphor and is spoken of as if it were a person who was at peace and who brought peace to others. (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-personification]])

# fruit of righteousness

Righteousness, the quality of someone who obeys God, is spoken of as if it were fruit growing on a tree. Here the writer is saying that righteousness increases as a result of discipline. (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metaphor]])

# who have been trained by it

"who have been trained by discipline." The discipline or correction done by the Lord is spoken of as if it were the Lord himself. This can be stated in active form. AT: "whom God has trained by disciplining them" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-personification]] and [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-activepassive]])

# translationWords

* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/obey]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/godthefather]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/spirit]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/life]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/holy]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/peace]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/fruit]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/righteous]]