# General Information:

The man Esau, who was told about in the writings of Moses, refers to Isaac's first son and Jacob's brother.

# Pursue peace with everyone

Here the abstract noun "peace" is spoken of as if it were something that a person must chase after and can be translated with an adverb. AT: "Try to live peacefully with everyone" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metaphor]] and [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-abstractnouns]])

# also the holiness without which no one will see the Lord

This can be expressed as a positive encouragement. AT: "also work hard to be holy, because only holy people will see the Lord" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-doublenegatives]])

# also the holiness

You can state clearly the understood information. AT: "also pursue the holiness" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-ellipsis]])

# no one lacks God's grace

"no one receives God's grace and then lets go of it" or "no one rejects God's grace after first trusting in him"

# that no root of bitterness grows up to cause trouble, so that many do not become polluted by it

Hateful or resentful attitudes are spoken of as if they were a plant bitter to the taste. AT: "that no one becomes like a bitter root, which when it grows causes trouble and harms many people" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metaphor]])

# he was rejected

This can be stated in active form. AT: "his father, Isaac, refused to bless him" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-activepassive]])

# because he found no opportunity for repentance

The abstract noun "repentance" can be translated with a verbal phrase. AT: "because it was not possible for him to repent" or "because it was not possible for him to change his decision" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-abstractnouns]])

# even though he sought it with tears

Here "he" refers to Esau.