# Connecting Statement:

The author gives a contrast between what believers in Moses' time had while living under the law and what present day believers have after coming to Jesus under the new covenant. He illustrates the experience of the Israelites by describing how God appeared to them at Mount Sinai.

# General Information:

The words "you" and "You" refer to the Hebrew believers to whom the author wrote. The word "they" refers to people of Israel after Moses led them out of Egypt. The first quotation comes from the writings of Moses. God reveals in this passage in Hebrews that Moses said he shook at seeing the mountain.

# For you have not come to a mountain that can be touched

The implicit information can be stated explicitly. AT: "For you have not come, as the people of Israel came, to a mountain that can be touched" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-explicit]])

# that can be touched

This means that believers in Christ have not come to a physical mountain like Mount Sinai that a person can touch or see. This can be stated in active form. AT: "that a person can touch" or "that people can perceive with their senses" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-activepassive]])

# You have not come to a trumpet blast

"You have not come to a place where there is the loud sound of a trumpet"

# nor to a voice that speaks words whose hearers begged that not another word be spoken to them

Here "voice" refers to someone speaking. The phrase "be spoken" can be stated in active form. AT: "or where God was speaking in such a way that those who heard him begged him not to speak another word to them" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metonymy]] and [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-activepassive]])

# what was commanded

This can be stated in active form. AT: "what God commanded" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-activepassive]])

# it must be stoned

This can be stated in active form. AT: "you must stone it" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-activepassive]])

# translationWords

* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/fire]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/darkness]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/trumpet]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/voice]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/beg]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/endure]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/command]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/stone]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/fear]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/moses]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/terror]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/tremble]]