# General Information:

The man Abel was the son of the first man and woman, Adam and Eve. Cain, also their son, murdered Abel.

# Mount Zion

The writer speaks of Mount Zion, the temple mount in Jerusalem, as if it were heaven itself, the residence of God. (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metaphor]])

# tens of thousands of angels

"an uncountable number of angels"

# the firstborn

This speaks of believers in Christ as if they were firstborn sons. This emphasizes their special place and privilege as God's people. (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metaphor]])

# registered in heaven

"whose names are written in heaven." This can be stated in active form. AT: "whose names God has written in heaven" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-activepassive]])

# the mediator of a new covenant

This means Jesus caused the new covenant between God and humans to exist. See how you translated this phrase in [Hebrews 9:15](../09/13.md).

# who have been made perfect

This can be stated in active form. AT: "whom God has made perfect" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-activepassive]])

# the sprinkled blood that speaks better than Abel's blood

The blood of Jesus and the blood of Abel are spoken of as if they were people calling out. AT: "the sprinkled blood of Jesus that says better things than the blood of Abel" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-personification]] and [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-explicit]])

# blood

Here "blood" stands for Jesus' death, as Abel's blood stands for his death. (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metonymy]])