# Connecting Statement:

Having contrasted the Israelites' experience at Mount Sinai with the believers' experience after Christ died, the writer reminds believers that they have the same God who warns them today. This is the fifth main warning given to believers.

# General Information:

This quotation is from the prophet Haggai in the Old Testament. The word "you" continues to refer to believers. The word "we" continues to refer to the writer and the readers who are believers. (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-you]] and [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-inclusive]])

# you do not refuse the one who is speaking

This can be stated in positive form. AT: "you pay attention to the one who is speaking" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-doublenegatives]])

# if they did not escape

The implicit information can be stated explicitly. AT: "if the people of Israel did not escape judgment" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-explicit]])

# the one who warned them on earth

Possible meanings are 1) "Moses, who warned them here on earth" or 2) "God, who warned them at Mount Sinai"

# if we turn away from the one who is warning

Disobeying God is spoken of as if a person were turning and walking away from him. AT: "if we disobey the one who is warning" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metaphor]])

# his voice shook the earth

"when God spoke, the sound of his voice caused the earth to shake"

# shook ... shake

Use the word for what an earthquake does in moving the ground. This refers back to [Hebrews 12:18-21](./18.md) and what happened when the people saw the mountain where Moses received the law from God.

# translationWords

* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/earth]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/turn]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/heaven]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/voice]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/promise]]