# General Information:

Here the quotation from the prophet Haggai is repeated from the previous verse.

# mean the removal of those things that can be shaken, that is, of the things

The abstract noun "removal" can be translated with the verb "remove." This can be stated in active form. AT: "mean that God will remove the things that he can shake, that is, the things" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-abstractnouns]] and [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-activepassive]])

# shaken

Use the word for what an earthquake does in moving the ground. This refers back to [Hebrews 12:18-21](./18.md) and what happened when the people saw the mountain where Moses received the law from God. See how you translated "shook" and "shake" in [Hebrews 12:26](./25.md).

# that have been created

This can be stated in active form. AT: "that God has created" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-activepassive]])

# the things that cannot be shaken

This can be stated in active form. AT: "the things that do not shake" or "the things that cannot shake" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-activepassive]])

# receiving a kingdom

You can add the words "because we are" to make clear the logical connection between this statement and the next statement. AT: "because we are receiving a kingdom" or "because God is making us members of his kingdom" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/writing-connectingwords]])

# that cannot be shaken

This can be stated in active form. AT: "that does not shake" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-activepassive]])

# let us be grateful

"let us give thanks"

# with reverence and awe

The words "reverence" and "awe" share similar meanings and emphasize the greatness of reverence due to God. AT: "with great respect and dread" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-doublet]])

# our God is a consuming fire

God is spoken of here as if he were a fire that can burn up anything. (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metaphor]])

# translationWords

* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/creation]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/kingdom]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/worship]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/god]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/reverence]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/awe]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/consume]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/fire]]