# Look, the money

"Listen to what we are about to say and you will see that we are speaking the truth: the money"

# the money that we found in our sacks' openings

"you know the money that we found in our sacks"

# we brought again to you out of the land of Canaan

"we brought back to you from Canaan"

# How then could we steal out of your master's house silver or gold?

The brothers use a question to emphasize that they would not steal from the lord of Egypt. AT: "So we would never take anything from your master's house!" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-rquestion]])

# silver or gold

These words are used together to mean that they would not steal anything of any value.

# With whomever of your servants it is found

The brothers refer to themselves as "your servants." This is a formal way of speaking to someone with greater authority. It can be stated in the first person. Also, "is is found" can be stated in active form. AT: "If you find that one of us has stolen the cup" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-123person]] and [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-activepassive]])

# we also will be my master's slaves

The phrase "my master" refers to the steward. This can be stated in the second person. AT: "you may take us as your slaves" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-123person]])

# Now also let it be according to your words

"Very well. I will do what you said." Here "now" does not mean "at this moment," but is used to draw attention to the important point that follows.

# He with whom the cup is found will be my slave

This can be stated in active form. AT: "If I find the cup in one of your sacks, that person will be my slave" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-activepassive]])

# translationWords

* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/names/canaan]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/silver]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/gold]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/servant]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/manager]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/word]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/innocent]]