# General Information:

Judah continues to speak before Joseph

# We said to my master, 'We have a father ... his father loves him.'

This is a quotation within a quotation. It can be stated as an indirect quotation. AT: "And we said to my master that we have a father ... his father loves him" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-quotesinquotes]] and [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-quotations]])

# we said to my master

Judah refers to Joseph as "my master." This is a formal way of speaking to someone with greater authority. AT: "we said to you, my master" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-123person]])

# his father loves him

This refers to love for a friend or family member.

# Then you said to your servants, 'Bring him down to me that I may see him.'

This is a quotation within a quotation. It can be stated as an indirect quotation. AT: "And you said to your servants that we should bring our youngest brother to you so that you may see him" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-quotesinquotes]] and [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-quotations]])

# Then you said to your servants

Judah refers to himself and his brothers as "your servants." AT: "Then you said to us, your servants" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-123person]])

# Bring him down to me

It was common to use the word "down" when speaking of traveling from Canaan to Egypt. AT: "Bring him to me" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-explicit]])

# After that, we said to my master, 'The boy cannot ... father would die.'

This is a quotation within a quotation. It can be stated as an indirect quotation. AT: "In response, we said to my master that the boy cannot ... father would die" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-quotesinquotes]] and [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-quotations]])

# his father would die

It is implied that their father would die from sorrow. (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-explicit]])

# translationWords

* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/love]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/servant]]