# General Information:

Judah continues his story to Joseph

# Then you said to your servants, 'Unless your youngest brother comes down with you, you will not see my face again.'

This is a quotation within a quotation. It can be stated as an indirect quotation. AT: "Then you said to your servants that unless our youngest brother comes with us, we would not see you again." (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-quotesinquotes]] and [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-quotations]])

# Then you said to your servants

Judah refers to himself and his brothers as "your servants." This is a formal way of speaking to someone with greater authority. AT: "Then you said to us, your servants" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-123person]])

# comes down ... go down

It was common to use the word "down" when speaking of traveling from Canaan to Egypt.

# you will not see my face again

Here "face" stands for the whole person. AT: "you will not see me again" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-synecdoche]])

# Then it came about

This phrase is used here to mark the beginning of a new part of the story. If your language has a way for doing this, you could consider using it here. (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/writing-newevent]])

# we went up to your servant my father

It was common to use the phrase "went up" when speaking of traveling from Egypt to Canaan.

# we told him the words of my master

Judah refers to Joseph as "my master." AT: "we told him what you said, my master" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-123person]])

# Our father said, 'Go again, buy us some food.'

This is a quotation within a quotation. It can be stated as an indirect quotation. AT: "Our father told us to go again to Egypt to buy food for us and our families." (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-quotesinquotes]] and [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-quotations]])

# Then we said, 'We cannot go down. If our youngest brother ... is with us.'

This is a quotation within a quotation. It can be stated as an indirect quotation. AT: "Then we said to him that we cannot go down to Egypt. We told him that if our youngest brother is with us ... is with us" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-quotesinquotes]] and [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-quotations]])

# to see the man's face

Here "face" stands for the whole person. AT: "to see the man" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-synecdoche]])

# translationWords

* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/servant]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/word]]