# Now

This does not mean "at this moment," but is used to draw attention to the important point that follows.

# therefore, when I come ... sorrow to Sheol

Judah is describing to Joseph a realistic but hypothetical case of what he will expect will happen to Jacob when he returns without Benjamin. (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-hypo]])

# when I come to your servant

Here "come" can be translated as "go" or "return."

# the lad is not with us

"the boy is not with us"

# since his life is bound up in the boy's life

The father saying he would die if his son died is spoken of as if their two lives were physically bound together. AT: "since he said he would die if the boy did not come back" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metaphor]])

# it will come about

Judah is speaking about a hypothetical case in the future as if it would certainly happen. (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-hypo]])

# Your servants will bring down the gray hair of your servant our father with sorrow to Sheol

To "bring down ... to Sheol" is way of saying they will cause him to die and go to Sheol. He uses the word "down" because it was commonly believed Sheol is somewhere underground. AT: "And we will have caused our old father to die of sorrow" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-idiom]])

# Your servants

Judah refers to himself and his brothers as "your servants." This is a formal way of speaking to someone with greater authority. AT: "And we, your servants" or "And we" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-123person]])

# the gray hair of your servant our father

Here "gray hair" stands for Jacob and emphasizes his old age. AT: "our old father" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-synecdoche]])

# For your servant became a guarantee for the boy to my father

The abstract noun "guarantee" can be stated with the verb "promised." AT: "For I promised my father concerning the boy" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-abstractnouns]])

# For your servant

Judah refers to himself as "your servant." AT: "For I, your servant" or "For I" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-123person]])

# then I will bear the guilt to my father

Being considered guilty is spoken of as if "guilt" were something that a person carries. AT: "then my father may blame me" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metaphor]])

# translationWords

* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/servant]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/bond]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/forever]]