# Then it was the day when

"At the time when" or "One day when." This is not a specific day but apparently the gathering happened often.

# sons of God

This refers to angels, heavenly beings.

# to present themselves before Yahweh

"to stand together before Yahweh as he commanded them to do".

# Yahweh

This is the name of God that he revealed to his people in the Old Testament. See the translationWord page about Yahweh concerning how to translate this.

# From wandering on the earth, from going back and forth on it

The phrases "wandering" and "going back and forth" refer to the activity of traveling all over the earth in order to emphasize its completeness. AT: "From going everywhere on the earth" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-parallelism]] and [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-merism]])

# Have you considered my servant Job?

"Have you thought about my servant Job?" Here God is beginning to talk with Satan about Job. AT: "Consider my servant Job" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-rquestion]])

# a blameless and upright man

The words "blameless" and "upright" share similar meanings and emphasize that Job was a righteous man. See how you translated this in [Job 1:1](./01.md). AT: "one who did what was right before God" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-doublet]])

# one who fears God

"one who honors God." See how you translated this in [Job 1:1](./01.md).

# translationWords

* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/sonsofgod]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/yahweh]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/satan]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/earth]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/servant]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/upright]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/fear]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/turn]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/evil]]