# Does Job fear God without reason?

"Does Job respect God for no reason?" Satan responds to God by presenting and answering his own question. He says that Job obeys God only because God blesses him. AT: "Job has a reason for obeying God." (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-rquestion]])

# Have you not put a barrier around him, around his house, and around all that is his from every side

Satan states the facts to support his argument. AT: "You have protected him, his family and everything he owns." (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-rquestion]])

# put a barrier around him, around his house, and around all that is his from every side

Just as a barrier such as a wall or a hedge surrounds and protects one's land, God has surrounded Job with his protection. AT: "protected him and his house and all that is his" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metaphor]])

# the deeds of his hands

"everything that he does"

# his cattle have burst forth in the land

"he has more and more livestock in the land"

# But now stretch out your hand and touch all that he has, and see if he does not curse you to your face

Satan means that if God attacks Job, he will see how Job responds. AT: "But now, if you stretch out your hand and touch all that he has, you will see that he will curse you to your face"

# But now stretch out your hand

Here "hand" refers to God's power to act. "But now use your power" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metonymy]])

# touch all that he has

Here "touch" represents the action of harming or destroying. AT: "attack all that he has" or "destroy all that he has" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metonymy]])

# to your face

"in your hearing." This refers to a time when God is paying attention.

# Behold

"Look" or "Pay attention to all that I am about to tell you"

# all that he has is in your hand

Here "hand" represents someone's power to control something. AT: "you have power over all that he has" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metonymy]])

# against him himself

"against his life"

# went away from the presence of Yahweh

"departed from Yahweh" or "left Yahweh"