# When the required number ... had passed

This shows the passing of time before this new event. (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/writing-newevent]])

# the required number of days

This can be stated in active form. AT: "the number of days that God required" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-activepassive]])

# for their purification

"for them to become ceremonially clean." You can also state God's role. AT: "for God to consider them to be clean again" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-explicit]])

# to present him to the Lord

"to bring him to the Lord" or "to bring him into the Lord's presence." This was a ceremony acknowledging God's claim on the firstborn children who were male.

# As it is written

This can be stated in active form. AT: "As Moses wrote" or "They did this because Moses wrote" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-activepassive]])

# Every male who opens the womb

"open the womb" is an idiom that refers to the first baby coming out of the womb. This referred to both animals and people. AT: "Every firstborn offspring who is a male" or "Every firstborn son" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-idiom]])

# what was said in the law of the Lord

"that which the law of the Lord also says." This is a different place in the law. It refers to all males, whether firstborn or not.

# translationWords

* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/purify]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/lawofmoses]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/temple]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/names/jerusalem]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/lordgod]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/written]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/setapart]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/sacrifice]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/dove]]