# Connecting Statement:

When Mary and Joseph are at the temple, they meet two people: Simeon, who praises God and gives a prophecy about the child, and the prophetess Anna.

# Behold

The word "behold" alerts us to a new person in the story. Your language may have a way of doing this. (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/writing-participants]])

# was righteous and devout

These abstract terms can be expressed as actions. AT: "did what was right and feared God" or "obeyed God's laws and feared God"

# consolation of Israel

The word "Israel" is a metonym for the people of Israel. To "console" someone is to give them comfort, or "consolation." The words "consolation of Israel" are a metonym for the Christ or Messiah who would comfort or bring consolation to the people of Israel. AT: "the one who would comfort the people of Israel" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metonymy]])

# the Holy Spirit was upon him

"the Holy Spirit was with him." God was with him in a special way and gave him wisdom and direction in his life.

# It had been revealed to him by the Holy Spirit

This can be stated in active form. AT: "The Holy Spirit had shown him" or "The Holy Spirit had told him" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-activepassive]])

# he would not see death before he had seen the Lord's Christ

"he would see the Lord's Messiah before he died"

# translationWords

* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/names/jerusalem]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/names/simeon]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/righteous]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/israel]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/holyspirit]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/reveal]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/lord]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/christ]]