# When they saw him

"When Mary and Joseph found Jesus"

# why have you treated us this way?

This was an indirect rebuke because he had not gone with them on the way back home. This caused them to worry about him. AT: "you should not have done this to us!" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-rquestion]])

# Listen

This word is often used to show the beginning of a new or important event. It also can be used to show where the action begins. If your language has a phrase that is used in this way, consider whether it would be natural to use it here.

# Why were you searching for me?

Jesus uses two questions to mildly rebuke his parents, and to begin to tell them that he had a purpose from his heavenly Father that they did not understand. AT: "You did not need to be concerned about me" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-rquestion]])

# Did you not know ... house?

Jesus uses this second question to try to say that his parents should have known about the purpose for which his Father sent him. AT: "You should have known ... house" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-rquestion]])

# my Father

At age 12, Jesus, the Son of God, understood that God was his real Father (not Joseph, Mary's husband). (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/guidelines-sonofgodprinciples]])

# in my Father's house

Possible meanings are 1) "in my Father's house" or 2) "about my Father's business." In either case, when Jesus said "my Father" he was referring to God. If he meant "house," then he was referring to the temple. If he meant "business," he was referring to the work God had given him to do. But since the next verse says that his parents did not understand what he was telling them, it would be best not to explain it more.

# translationWords

* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/amazed]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/godthefather]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/word]]