# disguises his feelings with his lips

Disguising his feelings represents keeping people from knowing what his feelings are. The phrase "his lips" is a metonym for what he says. AT: "hides his feelings with what he says" or "speaks in such a way that people cannot know his true feelings" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metaphor]] and [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metonymy]])

# he lays up deceit within himself

Being deceitful is spoken of as if he were storing deceit within himself. Possible meanings are that "deceit" refers to lies. AT: "he likes his many lies" or 2) deceit refers secret plans to harm people. AT: "he secretly plans to harm people" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metaphor]])

# but do not believe him

"but do not believe what he says"

# for there are seven abominations in his heart

The number seven represents completeness. Possible meanings are 1) "abominations" refers to attitudes that God hates. AT: "for his heart is completely filled with hateful things" or 2) "abominations" refers to his hatred for people. AT: "for his heart is completely filled with hatred" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metaphor]])

# Though his hatred is covered with deception

This can be stated actively. AT: "Though deception covers his hatred" or "Though he covers his hatred with deception" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-activepassive]])

# Though his hatred is covered with deception

Keeping people from knowing that he hates them is spoken of as covering his hatred. AT: "Though he lies to keep people from knowing that he hates them" or "Though he lies so that people will not know that he hates them" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metaphor]])

# his wickedness will be exposed in the assembly

Being exposed represents being discovered or becoming known. AT: "his wickedness will become known in the assembly" or "the assembly will discover his wickedness" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metaphor]] and [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-activepassive]])

# the assembly

"the community of Israel"