# Now

This word is used here to mark a break in the main storyline. Here the author starts to tell a new part of the story.

# Put your hand under my thigh

Abraham was about to ask the servant to swear to do something. Putting his hand under Abraham's thigh would show that he would certainly do what he would swear to do. (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/translate-symaction]])

# I will make you swear

This can be expressed as a command. AT: "swear" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-imperative]])

# swear by Yahweh

The term "swear by" means to use the name of something or someone as the basis or power on which the oath is made. "promise me with Yahweh as your witness"

# the God of heaven and the God of the earth

"the God of heaven and earth." The words "heaven" and "earth" are used together to mean every thing that God created. AT: "the God of everything in heaven and earth" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-merism]])

# heaven

This refers to the place where God lives.

# from the daughters of the Canaanites

"from the Canaanite women" or "from the Canaanites." This refers to Canaanite females.

# among whom I make my home

"among whom I live." Here, "I" stands for Abraham and all of his family and servants. AT: "among whom we live" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-synecdoche]])

# But you will go

This can be stated as a command. AT: "Swear that you will go" or "But go" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-imperative]])

# my relatives

"my family"

# translationWords

* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/abraham]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/yahweh]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/bless]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/servant]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/household]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/oath]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/god]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/heaven]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/canaan]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/isaac]]