# Then he said

"Then the servant said"

# grant me success today and show covenant faithfulness to my master Abraham

You can state this with the connecting word "by." This makes clear how the servant wants God to show covenant faithfulness. AT: "Show covenant faithfulness to my master Abraham by granting me success today" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/writing-connectingwords]])

# grant me success

"give me success." The servant wanted to find a good wife for Abraham's son. The abstract noun "success" can be stated as a verb. AT: "help me to succeed" or "make me able to do what I have come here to do" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-abstractnouns]])

# show covenant faithfulness to my master Abraham

The abstract noun "faithfulness" can be stated as "faithful." AT: "be faithful to the covenant you have with my master Abraham" or "be faithful to my master Abraham" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-abstractnouns]])

# Look

Here the word "Look" adds emphasis to what follows.

# the spring of water

"the spring" or "the well"

# the daughters of the men of the city

"the young women of the city"

# Let it happen like this

"Let it happen this way" or "Make this happen"

# When I say to a young woman, 'Please lower your pitcher so that I may drink,'

This is a quotation within a quotation. This can be expressed with an indirect quote. AT: "When I ask a young woman to let me have a drink of water from her jar" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-quotesinquotes]] and [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-quotations]])

# Please lower your pitcher

The women carried the pitchers on their shoulder. She would have to lower it to give the man a drink.

# pitcher

a medium-size jar made of clay used for holding and pouring liquids

# that you have shown covenant faithfulness to my master

The abstract noun "faithfulness" can be stated as "been faithful." AT: "that you have been faithful to the covenant you have with my master Abraham" or "you have been faithful to my master Abraham" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-abstractnouns]])

# translationWords

* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/yahweh]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/god]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/lord]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/covenantfaith]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/abraham]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/fountain]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/appoint]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/servant]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/camel]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/isaac]]