# General Information:

Abraham's servant continues speaking to Rebekah's family.

# Now therefore

"Now." Here "Now" does not mean "at this moment," but is used to draw attention to the important point that follows.

# if you are prepared to treat my master with family faithfulness and trustworthiness, tell me

How they could show their faithfulness and trustworthiness can be stated explicitly. AT: "tell me if you will be faithful and trustworthy to my master by giving Rebekah to be his son's wife" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-explicit]])

# you

The word "you" refers to Laban and Bethuel. (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-you]])

# faithfulness and trustworthiness

These abstract nouns can be stated as "faithful and trustworthy." (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-abstractnouns]])

# family faithfulness

This is faithfulness to family members.

# But if not

The understood information can be stated clearly. AT: "But if you are not prepared to treat my master with family faithfulness and trustworthiness" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-ellipsis]])

# so that I may turn to the right hand, or to the left

Possible meanings are 1) deciding what to do is spoken of as if the person will physically turn one direction or another. AT: "so that I will know what do" or 2) the servant wants to know if he needs to travel somewhere else. AT: "so that I may continue on my journey" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metaphor]] and [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-idiom]])

# translationWords

* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/faithful]]