# the incomparable greatness of his power

God's power is far beyond all other power.

# toward us who believe

"for us who believe"

# the working of his great strength

"his great power that is at work for us"

# raised him

"made him alive again"

# from the dead

From among all those who have died. This expression describes all dead people together in the underworld. To come back from among them speaks of becoming alive again.

# seated him at his right hand
To sit at the "right hand of God" is a symbolic action of receiving great honor and authority from God. AT: "seated him in the place of honor and authority beside him" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/translate-symaction]])

# in the heavenly places

"in the supernatural world." The word "heavenly" refers to the place where God is. See how you translated this in [Ephesians 1:3](./03.md).

# far above all rule and authority and power and dominion

These are different terms for the ranks of supernatural beings, both angelic and demonic. AT: "far above all types of supernatural beings"

# every name that is named

This can be stated in active form. AT: Possible meanings are 1) "every name that man gives" or 2) "every name that God gives" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-activepassive]])

# name

Possible meanings are 1) title or 2) position of authority. (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metonymy]])

# in this age

"at this time"

# in the age to come

"in the future"

# translationWords

* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/power]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/believe]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/christ]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/god]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/raise]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/heaven]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/ruler]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/authority]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/dominion]]