# General Information:

There is a shift here to the second person. This may mean 1) the writer begins speaking to the people of Israel or 2) the writer is quoting another person speaking to the writer. (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-123person]])

# your foot to slip

The slipping of a foot is associated with falling. AT: "you to fall" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metonymy]])

# he who protects ... the guardian

These two phrases means the same thing, and emphasize God's role as a protector. (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-parallelism]])

# he who protects you will not slumber

Here to "slumber" means he would stop protecting. The negative form strengthens the statement. AT: "God will not fall asleep and stop protecting you" or "God will always protect you" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metonymy]] and [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-doublenegatives]])

# will not slumber ... never slumbers or sleeps

These two phrases have similar meanings. The second one strengthens the thought in the first. (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-parallelism]])

# See

This word alerts us to pay attention to the important information that follows.

# never slumbers or sleeps

These two words mean the same thing. Here to "slumber" means to stop protecting. The negative form strengthens the statement. AT: "will not sleep and stop protecting you" or "will always protect you" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-doublet]] and [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metonymy]] and [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-doublenegatives]])

# translationWords

* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/israel]]