# General Information:

David continues speaking to the king.

# Yahweh will hold out the scepter of your strength

Here David speaks of Yahweh extending the area that the king rules as holding out his scepter. AT: "Yahweh will extend the area over which you powerfully rule" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-explicit]])

# rule among your enemies

"King, rule among your enemies." This is spoken to the king as a command.

# of their own free will

"by their own choice." This means that they will chose to follow the king.

# on the day of your power

This refers to the day that the king will lead his armies into battle. This can be stated clearly. AT: "on the day that you lead your armies into battle" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-explicit]])

# from the womb of the dawn ... like the dew

David describes the dew as a baby to whom the dawn gives birth. AT: "in the morning ... like the dew" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-personification]])

# from the womb of the dawn your youth will be to you like the dew

David is telling the king that he will have youthful strength each morning by comparing it to how the dew appears early each morning. AT: "each morning you will be filled with youthful strength to sustain you just like each morning the dew appears to water and sustain the earth" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metaphor]])

# translationWords

* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/scepter]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/zion]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/peoplegroup]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/holy]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/power]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/womb]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/like]]