# is given

This can be stated in active form. See how this is translated in [1 Corinthians 12:8](./07.md). AT: "God gives" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-activepassive]])

# to another gifts of healing by the one Spirit

The words "are given" are understood from the previous phrase. AT: "to another gifts of healing by the one Spirit are given" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-ellipsis]])

# to another prophecy

The phrase "is given by the same Spirit" is understood from the previous phrases. AT: "to another prophecy is given by the same Spirit" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-ellipsis]])

# to another various kinds of tongues

The phrase "are given by the same Spirit" is understood from the previous phrases. AT: "to another various kinds of tongues are given by the same Spirit" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-ellipsis]])

# various kinds of tongues

Here "tongues" represents languages. AT: "the ability to speak different languages" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metonymy]])

# to another the interpretation of tongues

The phrase "is given by the same Spirit" is understood from the previous phrases. AT: "to another the interpretation of tongues is given by the same Spirit" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-ellipsis]])

# the interpretation of tongues

This is the ability to listen to what someone says in one language and use another language to tell people what that person is saying. AT: "the ability to interpret what is said in other languages"

# one and the same Spirit

God gives the gifts through the work of the one and only Holy Spirit. See how this is translated in [1 Corinthians 12:8](./07.md).