# Connecting Statement:

Luke begins to tell about the mission trips on which the church at Antioch send Barnabas and Saul.

# General Information:

Verse 1 gives background information about the people in the church at Antioch. (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/writing-background]])

# General Information:

Here the first word "they" probably refers to these five leaders but may also include the other believers. The next words "they" and "their" probably refer to the other three leaders not including Barnabas and Saul but could include other believers.

# Now in the church in Antioch

"At that time in the church at Antioch"

# Simeon ... Niger ... Lucius ... Manaen

These are men's names. (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/translate-names]])

# foster brother of Herod the tetrarch

Manaen was probably Herod's playmate or close friend growing up.

# Set apart for me

"Appoint to serve me"

# I have called them

The verb here means that God chose them to do this work.

# laid their hands on these men

"laid their hands on these men whom God had set apart for his service." This act showed that the leaders agreed that the Holy Spirit had called Barnabas and Saul to do this work. (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/translate-symaction]])

# sent them off

"sent those men off" or "sent those men off to do the work the Holy Spirit told them to do"

# translationWords

* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/antioch]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/prophet]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/teacher]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/barnabas]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/cyrene]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/herodantipas]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/tetrarch]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/setapart]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/paul]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/fast]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/pray]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/send]]