# General Information:

Here the word "they" refers to Paul, Silas, and John Mark.

# General Information:

The words "This man" refer to "Sergius Paulus." The first word "he" refers to Sergius Paulus, the proconsul; the second word "he" refers to Elymas (also called Bar-Jesus), the magician.

# the whole island

They crossed from one side of the island to the other and shared the gospel message in each town they passed through.

# Paphos

a major city on Cyprus island where the proconsul lived

# they found

Here "found" means they came upon him without looking for him. AT: "they met" or "they came upon"

# a certain magician

"a particular person who practices witchcraft" or "a person who practices supernatural magic arts"

# whose name was Bar Jesus

"Bar Jesus" means "Son of Jesus." There is no relation between this man and Jesus Christ. Jesus was a common name at that time. (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/translate-names]])

# associated with

"was often with" or "was often in the company of"

# proconsul

This was a governor in charge of a Roman province. AT: "governor"

# who was an intelligent man

This is background information about Sergius Paulus. (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/writing-background]])

# he wanted to hear the word of God
"Word of God" is a synecdoche for "message of God." AT: "he wanted to hear the message from God" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-synecdoche]])

# Elymas "the magician"

This was Bar-Jesus, who was also called "the magician." (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/translate-names]])

# that is how his name is translated

"that was what he was called in Greek"

# opposed them; he tried to turn

"resisted them by trying to turn" or "attempted to stop them by trying to turn"

# tried to turn the proconsul away from the faith

Here "to turn ... away from" is a metaphor for convincing someone to not do something. AT: "attempted to persuade the governor not to believe the gospel message" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metaphor]])

# translationWords

* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/falseprophet]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/names/barnabas]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/names/paul]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/wordofgod]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/faith]]