# Connecting Statement:

While on the island of Paphos, Paul begins to talk to Elymas.

# General Information:

The words "him," "You," and "you" refer to the magician Elymas (also called Bar Jesus). (See: [Acts 13:6-8](./06.md))

# Saul, who is also called Paul

"Saul" as his Jewish name, and "Paul" was his Roman name. Since he was speaking to a Roman official, he used his Roman name. AT: "Saul, who now called himself Paul" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-activepassive]])

# stared at him intensely

"looked at him intensely"

# You son of the devil

Paul is saying the man is acting like the devil. AT: "You are like the devil" or "You act like the devil" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metonymy]])

# you are full of all kinds of deceit and wickedness

"you are always intent in causing others to believe what is not true using falsehood and always doing what is wrong"

# wickedness

In this context it means to be lazy and not diligent in following God's law.

# You are an enemy of every kind of righteousness

Paul is grouping Elymas with the devil. Just as the devil is an enemy of God and is against righteousness, so also was Elymas.

# You will never stop twisting the straight paths of the Lord, will you?

Paul uses this question to rebuke Elymas for opposing God. AT: "You are always saying that the truth about the Lord God is false!" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-rquestion]])

# the straight paths of the Lord

Here "straight paths" refer to the ways that are true. AT: "the true ways of the Lord" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-idiom]])

# translationWords

* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/names/paul]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/filled]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/satan]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/deceive]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/adversary]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/righteous]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/lord]]