# Connecting Statement:

Paul finishes speaking to Elymas.

# General Information:

The words "you" and "him" refer to Elymas, the magician.

# General Information:

The word "he" refers to the Sergius Paulus, proconsul (governor of Paphos).

# the hand of the Lord is upon you

Here "hand' represents the power of God and "upon you" implies punishment. AT: "The Lord will punish you" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metonymy]])

# you will become blind

This can be stated in active form. AT: "God will make you blind" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-activepassive]])

# You will not see the sun

Elymas will be so completely blind that he not even be able to see the sun. AT: "You will not even see the sun"

# for a while

"for a period of time" or "until the time appointed by God"

# there fell on Elymas a mist and darkness

"the eyes of Elymas became blurry and then dark" or "Elymas started seeing unclearly and then he could not see anything"

# he started going around

"Elymas wandered around" or "Elymas started feeling around and"

# proconsul

This was a governor in charge of a Roman province. AT: "governor"

# he believed

"he believed in Jesus"

# he was astonished at the teaching about the Lord

This can be stated in active form. AT: "the teaching about the Lord amazed him" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-activepassive]])

# translationWords

* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/hand]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/lord]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/governor]]