# Connecting Statement:

This is a new part of the story about Paul in Antioch in Pisidia.

# General Information:

Verses 13 and 14 give background information about this part of the story. (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/writing-background]])

# General Information:

"Paul and his friends" were Barnabas and John Mark (also called John). From this point on, Saul is called Paul in Acts. Paul's name is listed first which indicates that he had become the leader of the group. It is important to keep this order in the translation.

# Now

This marks the beginning of a new part of the story.

# set sail from Paphos

"traveled by sailboat from Paphos"

# came to Perga in Pamphylia

"arrived in Perga which is in Pamphylia"

# But John left them

"But John Mark left Paul and Barnabas"

# Antioch of Pisidia

"the city of Antioch in the district of Pisidia"

# After the reading of the law and the prophets

The "law and the prophets" refer to parts of the Jewish scriptures which were read. AT: "After someone read from the books of the law and the writings of the prophets" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-synecdoche]])

# sent them a message saying

"told someone to say" or "asked someone to say"

# Brothers

The term "brothers" is here used by the people in the synagogue to refer to Paul and Barnabas as fellow Jews.

# if you have any message of encouragement

"if you want to say anything to encourage us"

# say it

"please speak it" or "please tell it to us"

# translationWords

* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/paul]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/johnmark]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/jerusalem]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/synagogue]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/sabbath]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/prophet]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/brother]]