# Connecting Statement:

Paul begins his speech to those in the synagogue in Pisidian Antioch. He begins by talking about things that happened in Israel's history.

# General Information:

The first word "he" refers to Paul. The second word "he" refers to God.

# General Information:

Here the word "our" refers to Paul and his fellow Jews. (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-inclusive]])

# General Information:

The words "they" and "them" refer to the Israelites.

# motioned with his hand

This could refer to moving his hands as a signal that he was ready to speak. AT: "moved his hands to show that he was about to speak" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/translate-symaction]])

# you who honor God

This refers to Gentiles who had converted to Judaism. AT: "you who are not Israelites but who worship God."

# listen

"listen to me" or "listen to what I am about to say"

# The God of this people Israel

"The God the people of Israel worship"

# our fathers

"our ancestors"

# made the people numerous

"caused them to become very numerous"

# with an uplifted arm

This refers to God's mighty power. AT: "with great power" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metonymy]])

# out of it

"out from the land of Egypt"

# he put up with them

This means "he tolerated them." Some versions have have a different word that means "he took care of them." AT: "God endured their disobedience" or "God took care of them"

# translationWords

* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/israel]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/honor]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/god]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/father]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/names/egypt]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/desert]]