# General Information:

The quotation here is from the Gospels.

# From this man's descendants

"From David's descendants." This is placed at the beginning of the sentence to emphasize that the savior had to be one of David's descendants. (See: [Acts 13:22](./21.md))

# brought to Israel

This refers to the people of Israel. AT: "gave to the people of Israel" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metonymy]])

# as he promised to do

"just as God promised he would do"

# the baptism of repentance

You can translate the word "repentance" as the verb "repent." AT: "the baptism to repent" or "the baptism that people requested when they wanted to repent for their sin" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-abstractnouns]])

# Who do you think I am?

John asked this question to compel the people to think about who he was. AT: "Think about who I am" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-rquestion]])

# I am not the one

John was referring to the Messiah, whom they were expecting to come. AT: "I am not the Messiah" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-explicit]])

# But listen

This emphasizes the importance of what he will say next.

# one is coming after me

This also refers to the Messiah. AT: "The Messiah will soon come" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-explicit]])

# the shoes of whose feet I am not worthy to untie

"I am not worthy even to untie his shoes." The Messiah is so much greater than John that he did not even feel worthy do the lowest job for him.

# translationWords

* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/descendant]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/israel]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/savior]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/jesus]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/johnthebaptist]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/baptize]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/repent]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/works]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/worthy]]