# General Information:

The second quotation here is from the prophet Isaiah.

# So

This word marks an event that happened because of previous event. In this case, the previous event is God's raising Jesus from the dead.

# our fathers

"our ancestors." Paul is still speaking to the Jews and Gentile converts in the synagogue at Antioch of Pisidia. These were the physical ancestors of the Jews, and the spiritual ancestors of the converts.

# what God promised to our fathers he has fulfilled for us, their children

"God has fulfilled for us these promises that he made to our ancestors"

# for us, their children

"for us, who are the children of our ancestors." Paul is still speaking to the Jews and Gentile converts in the synagogue at Antioch of Pisidia. These were the physical ancestors of the Jews, and the spiritual ancestors of the converts.

# by raising up Jesus

"Raising up" here is an idiom for "causing Jesus to live again" AT: "causing Jesus to live again"  (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-idiom]])

# As it is written in the second Psalm

"This is what was written in the second Psalm"

# the second Psalm

"Psalm 2"

# Son ... Father

These are important titles that describe the relationship between Jesus and God. (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/guidelines-sonofgodprinciples]])

# The fact that he raised him up from the dead so that his body would never decay, God has spoken in this way

"God spoke these words about his making Jesus alive again so that he would never die again"

# from the dead

From among all those who have died. This expression describes all dead people together in the underworld. To come back from among them speaks of becoming alive again.

# sure blessings

"certain blessings"

# translationWords

* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/goodnews]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/promise]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/father]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/psalm]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/sonofgod]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/holy]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/bless]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/names/david]]