# I swear by Yahweh

Joab is making a very strong oath. AT: "I swear, as surely as Yahweh is alive" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-explicit]])

# if you do not go, not one man will remain with you

This means that only if David went would his soldiers remain with him. AT: "only if you go will any of your men remain with you" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-doublenegatives]])

# not one man will remain with you

This refers to them remaining loyal to him. AT: "not one man will remain loyal to you" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-idiom]])

# all the people were told

This is a generalization. It means most of the men. It can be stated in active form. AT: "many of the men who were there heard others saying" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-hyperbole]] and [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-activepassive]])

# Look, the king is sitting

The word "Look" is used here to draw someone's attention to what is said next. AT: "Listen, the king is sitting"

# all the people

Here "the people" refer to the people who followed David. Here "all" is an generalization. It means a large number came and gathered around him. AT: "many of the people" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-hyperbole]])

# So Israel fled, every man to his home

Here "Israel" refers to the Israelite soldiers who followed Absalom. AT: "And every Israelite soldier fled to his own home" or "And all of the Israelite soldiers fled to their homes" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-synecdoche]])

# translationWords

* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/oath]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/yahweh]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/king]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/gate]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/peoplegroup]]