# sent to Zadok and to Abiathar

This means that David sent a messenger to Zadok and Abiathar. AT: "sent a messenger to Zadok and to Abiathar" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-idiom]])

# Why are you the last to bring the king back ... to bring him back to his palace?

This rhetorical question is asked to rebuke the elders in Judah. This can be written as a statement. AT: "You should have been the first to favor the king and bring him back to the palace, not the people of the nation of Israel." (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-rquestion]])

# since the talk of all Israel favors the king, to bring

The noun "talk" can be expressed with the verb "talk" or "speak." AT: "since all Israel speaks favorably about the king and desires to bring" or "since what the people of Israel are saying is in the king's favor, to bring" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-abstractnouns]])

# to bring the king back to his palace

Here restoring the king's authority to rule is spoken of as bringing him back to his palace. AT: "to restore the king's authority as king" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metaphor]])

# You are my brothers, my flesh and bone

Here the king describes how they are related by saying that they have the same flesh and bones. Also the implied words "you are" may be added to the second phrase. AT: "You are my brothers, my relatives" or "You are my brothers, you are my flesh and bone" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metaphor]] and [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-ellipsis]])

# Why then are you the last to bring back the king?

This is the second rhetorical question here and it is also a rebuke for the elders of Judah. This can be written as a statement. AT: "You should have been the first, not the last, to bring back the king." (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-rquestion]])