# How many days are left in the years of my life, that I should go up with the king to Jerusalem?

Here Barzillai means that he is old and that there is no reason for him to accompany David. This rhetorical question can be translated as a statement. AT: "I am certainly not going to live many more years. There is no good reason for me to go up with the king to Jerusalem." (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-rquestion]])

# eighty years old

"80 years old" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/translate-numbers]])

# Can I distinguish between good and bad?

Barzillai uses rhetorical questions to emphasize why he does not want to go to Jerusalem. Here "good" and "bad" refer to what is desirable and what is not. This question can be written as a statement. AT: "I cannot distinguish between what is desirable and what is not." (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-rquestion]])

# Can your servant taste what I eat or what I drink?

Barzillai uses rhetorical questions to emphasize why he does not want to go to Jerusalem. This question can be written as a statement. AT: "I cannot enjoy the taste of what I eat and drink." (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-rquestion]])

# Can I hear any more the voice of singing men and singing women?

Barzillai uses rhetorical questions to emphasize why he does not want to go to Jerusalem. This question can be written as a statement. AT: "I cannot hear well the voices of singing men and singing women." (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-rquestion]])

# Why then should your servant be a burden to my master the king?

Barzillai uses this rhetorical question to emphasize that he does not want to be a burden to the king. This can be written as a statement. AT: "Your servant should not go with you and be a burden to you." (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-rquestion]])

# Why should the king repay me with such a reward?

Barzillai uses this rhetorical question to emphasize that he does not know why the king would reward him this way. This can be written as a statement. AT: "I do not know why the king would repay me with such a great reward" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-rquestion]])

# translationWords

* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/life]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/reward]]