# Why then are you angry about this?

The men of Judah ask this rhetorical question to rebuke the men of Israel. This can be written as a statement. AT: "But you have no reason to be upset about this." (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-rquestion]])

# Have we eaten anything that the king had to pay for? Has he given us any gifts?

The men of Judah ask the question to express that they have not taken anything from the king. This can be written as a statement. AT: "The king has never paid for our food, and he has never given us any gifts." (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-rquestion]])

# we have even more right to David than you

"we have a greater claim to David than you do." It may be helpful to state clearly what having "more right" means. AT: "we have more right to serve the king and to be with the king than you do" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-explicit]])

# Why then did you despise us?

The men of Israel ask this rhetorical question to express their anger. This can be written as a statement. AT: "You should not have despised us!" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-rquestion]])

# Was not our proposal to bring back our king the first to be heard?

The men of Israel ask this question to remind and rebuke the people of Judah. This can be written as a statement. AT: "We were the first to suggest that we bring back the king!" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-rquestion]])

# the words of the men of Judah were even more harsh than the words of the men of Israel

"the men of Judah spoke even more harshly than the men of Israel did"

# translationWords

* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/judah]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/israel]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/angry]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/gift]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/tribe]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/word]]