# General Information:

Yahweh is speaking.

# Find safety ... by leaving Jerusalem

Here "Find safety" represents doing what they can in order to be safe. AT: "Be safe .. by leaving Jerusalem" or "Leave Jerusalem ... so that you can be safe" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-idiom]])

# people of Benjamin

This is who Yahweh was speaking to.

# Blow a trumpet in Tekoa

A trumpet is used as a warning that people will be attacked. AT: "Blow a trumpet in Tekoa to warn the people that they will be attacked" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-explicit]])

# Tekoa

This is the name of a town about 18 kilometers south of Jerusalem. The name means "a horn for blowing." (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/translate-names]])

# Raise up over Beth Hakkerem a signal

Possible meanings are 1) the signal is smoke from a fire. AT: "Light a fire to send up smoke at Beth Hakkerem to warn people about the enemy coming" or 2) the signal is a flag. AT: "Raise up a flag over the town of Beth Hakkerem to warn people about the enemy coming"

# Beth Hakkerem

the name of a town about 10 kilometers south of Jerusalem. The name means "the place of the vineyard."

# wickedness is appearing from the north

Here "wickedness" represents disaster and the people who will cause it. AT: "enemies will come from the north and cause disaster to happen to you" or "enemies coming from the north will destroy you" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metonymy]])

# a great crushing is coming

How the crushing will come can be stated clearly. AT: "Enemies will come and crush you" or "Enemies will come and destroy you" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-explicit]])

# The daughter of Zion, the beautiful and delicate woman

Zion is another name for Jerusalem. Yahweh speaks of Jerusalem as though it were a woman. He speaks of it as a daughter to show his love for Jerusalem. AT: "My dear Zion, which is like a beautiful and delicate woman" or "My dear Zion" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-personification]])

# The shepherds and their flocks will go to them

Kings were often spoken of as shepherds of their people. AT: "The kings and their soldiers will go to them" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metaphor]])

# they will set up tents against her all around

The phrase "against her" means "in order to attack Zion." AT: "they will set up tents all around Zion in order to attack it" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-explicit]])

# each man will shepherd

God speaks of kings leading their armies to destroy the land, as if they were shepherds leading their sheep to eat grass. AT: "like a shepherd each king will lead his army" or "each king will lead his army" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metonymy]])

# with his own hand

Here "hand" represents the portion of something someone his assigned to take in his hand. Here it refers to the portion of land the king is assigned to conquer. AT: "and conquer his portion of the land" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metaphor]])

# translationWords

* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/benjamin]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/jerusalem]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/trumpet]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/raise]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/evil]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/daughterofzion]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/zion]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/shepherd]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/flock]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/tent]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/hand]]