# General Information:

A king from the attacking army is speaking to the men under his control.

# Dedicate yourselves

It can be stated clearly that the kings say this. AT: "The kings say to their armies, 'Dedicate yourselves" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-explicit]])

# Dedicate yourselves to the gods for the battle

The attacking army tries to ensure that their gods will help them during the war by performing ceremonies and making sacrifices to them. AT: "Prepare for war by purifying yourselves and sacrificing to the gods" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-explicit]])

# Arise, let us attack

To arise or stand up is a metaphor for no longer watching and thinking and instead beginning to act. AT: "Let us stop thinking and begin to attack" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metaphor]])

# let us attack at noon

"Let us attack Jerusalem at noon"

# It is too bad that the daylight is fading away, that the evening shadows are falling

The kings say this later in the day when they want their army to keep fighting even though it is getting dark.

# the daylight is fading away

The end of the day is spoken of in terms of its light becoming dark. AT: "the day is ending" or "it is beginning to get dark" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metonymy]])

# are falling

"are stretching out" or "are getting longer"

# at night

"during the night even though it is dark"

# her fortresses

People often spoke of cities as if they were women. Her the word "her" refers to Jerusalem. AT: "the strong buildings of Jerusalem" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-explicit]])

# translationWords

* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/shadow]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/stronghold]]