# Yahweh of hosts says this

Jeremiah often uses these words to introduce an important message from Yahweh.

# Cut her trees

God says this to the army that will attack Jerusalem. The word "her" refers to Jerusalem; cities were often spoken of as if they were women. AT: "Cut down the trees outside of Jerusalem" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-personification]])

# heap up siegeworks against Jerusalem

Siegeworks are either high mounds of dirt or high ramps made of wood that the enemies build outside the city wall in order go on top of the wall and attack the people inside the city.

# because it is filled with oppression

Here "it is filled with oppression" represents people there always oppressing people. AT: "because its people are always oppressing each other" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metaphor]])

# As a well pours out fresh water, so this city keeps producing wickedness

Here "this city keeps producing wickedness" represents people in the city continuing to do wicked things. (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-simile]])

# Violence and disorder are heard within her

This can be stated in active form. AT: "I hear violence and disorder in her" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-activepassive]])

# sickness and wounds are continually before my face

These things being "before" God's face represents him seeing them. AT: "I constantly see sickness and wounds" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-idiom]])

# Accept discipline, Jerusalem ... make you into a ruin, an uninhabited land

Here God speaks to the people of Jerusalem as if he were speaking to the city itself. AT: "Accept discipline, you people of Jerusalem ... make your land into a ruin, an uninhabited land" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metonymy]])

# Accept discipline

"Accept discipline" is a metaphor for learning from discipline. AT: "Learn from your discipline" or "When I punish you, learn to do what is right" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metonymy]])

# an uninhabited land

"a land that has no people living in it"

# translationWords

* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/yahwehofhosts]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/jerusalem]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/oppress]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/well]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/suffer]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/plague]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/discipline]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/turn]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/ruin]]