# They will certainly glean those who are left in Israel like a vineyard

Yahweh speaks of the enemy attacking those who remain as if the enemy were to pick grapes that remain in a vineyard after others have harvested it. AT: "After destroying Israel, they will certainly come back to attack the people who are still alive" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metaphor]])

# They will certainly

The word "They" refers to the enemy that Yahweh sends to destroy Israel.

# Reach out again with your hand to pick grapes from the vines

Yahweh commands the enemy to attack those who remain in Israel as if the enemy were pick to grapes that remain in a vineyard after others have harvested it. AT: "Come back and attack the people of Israel who remain" or "Like people who reach out again to pick grapes from vines that they have already harvested, come back and attack the people who remain" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metaphor]])

# To whom should I declare and warn so they will listen

Yahweh uses this question to emphasize that none of the people of Israel would listen to him even after they survived the attack of their enemies. AT: "There is no one left for me to speak to and warn who might listen" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-rquestion]])

# Look

"Listen" or "Indeed." This word adds emphasis to what follows.

# Their ears are uncircumcised

This represents their stubborn unwillingness to listen to God. AT: "Their ears are closed" or "They refuse to listen" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metaphor]])

# Their ears

The word "Their" refer to the people of Israel.

# The word of Yahweh has come to them

This idiom is used to announce that God gave messages to them. He did this through his prophets. AT: "Yahweh has sent messages to them" or "Yahweh has spoken to them" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-idiom]])

# they do not want it

"they do not want to listen to the word of Yahweh"