# But I am filled with Yahweh's fury

Jeremiah is speaking. He feels the same anger that Yahweh feels, and he speaks of being extremely angry as if he were filled with anger. AT: "I am completely angry as Yahweh is" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-idiom]])

# I am tired of holding it in

Jeremiah speaks of not showing Yahweh's anger as if he were holding the anger inside himself. AT: "I am tired from not expressing this anger" or "I am tired of not doing anything about this anger" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metaphor]])

# Pour it out on the children in the streets and on the groups of young men

God speaks of punishing the people of Israel as if his anger were a liquid that he wanted Jeremiah to pour out on them. AT: "In anger punish the children in the streets and the groups of young men" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metaphor]])

# For every man will be taken away with his wife

This can be stated in active form. AT: "Because enemies will capture every man with his wife" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-activepassive]])

# every old person heavy with years

The words "will be taken" are understood from the previous phrase. AT: "every old person heavy with years will be taken" or "they will take every old person heavy with years" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-ellipsis]])

# every old person heavy with years

The phrase "heavy with years" is an idiom that means "very old." It reinforces the phrase "old person." AT: "every very old person" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-idiom]])

# Their houses will be turned over to others

This can be stated in active form. AT: "Their houses will become the possession of other people" or "There people will take their houses" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-activepassive]])

# both their fields and their wives together

The phrase "will be turned over to others" is understood from the previous phrase. AT: "and their their fields and their women will also be turned over to others" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-ellipsis]])

# For I will attack the inhabitants of the land with my hand

Here "my hand" represents Yahweh's power. Here it shows that when the armies attack Israel, it is because Yahweh caused them to do it. AT: "For by my power I will attack the people living in the land" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metonymy]])

# this is Yahweh's declaration

Yahweh speaks of himself by name to express the certainty of what he is declaring. See how you translated this in [Jeremiah 1:8](../01/07.md). AT: "this is what Yahweh has declared" or "this is what I, Yahweh, have declared" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-123person]])

# translationWords

* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/yahweh]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/wrath]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/hand]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/declare]]