# that from the least to the greatest, all of them are greedy

The phrase "from the least to the greatest" shows that all the people of Israel are included in the phrase "all of them," regardless of how important they are. AT: "all of them, including the least powerful, the most powerful, and every one else, are greedy" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-merism]])

# the least

This refers to the least powerful and least important people. AT: "the least powerful people" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-nominaladj]])

# the greatest

This refers to the most powerful and most important people. AT: "the greatest people" or "the most powerful people" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-nominaladj]])

# all of them

"all of the people of Israel"

# are greedy for dishonest gain

The abstract noun "gain" can be expressed with the phrases "get more money" or "get more things." AT: "want to get more money by lying to people" or "strongly desire to get more things and will even trick people in order to get them" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-abstractnouns]])

# all of them practice deceit

"all of them deceive people" or "all of them are liars"

# They have healed the wounds of my people lightly

Possible meanings are 1) the wounds represent the problems the people have as a result of their sin. AT: "They act as though my people's problems are not serious, like small wounds" or 2) the wounds represent the people's sin. AT: "They acts as though my people's sins are not serious, like small wounds" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metaphor]])

# They have healed the wounds ... lightly

Here "lightly" represents treating the wounds as if they were not serious, as if they were not difficult. (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metaphor]])

# 'Peace, Peace,' when there is no peace

"'All is well, All is well,' but it is not well"

# Were they ashamed when they practiced abominations?

God uses this question to show his anger that the people were not ashamed of their sins. AT: "They committed terrible sins, and they were not ashamed" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-rquestion]])

# they did not know how to blush

When a person is ashamed, his face normally turns red. AT: "their faces did not even turn red"

# they will fall among the fallen

Here "fall" represents being killed. AT: "they will be killed along with the others who are killed" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metaphor]])

# they will be brought down when they are punished

Here "will be brought down" represents being destroyed. This can be stated in active form. AT: "I will destroy them when I punish them" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metaphor]] and [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-activepassive]])

# translationWords

* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/prophet]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/priest]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/deceive]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/heal]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/peopleofgod]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/peace]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/shame]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/abomination]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/humble]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/punish]]