# Yahweh says this

It can be stated clearly who Yahweh says this to. AT: "Yahweh says this to the people of Israel" or "Yahweh says this to his people" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-explicit]])

# Stand at the road crossing ... We will not go

The roads and pathways refer to ways that people live their lives. Yahweh wants the people of Israel to ask what is the good way to live their lives and for them to live that way. (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metaphor]])

# the road crossing

This refers to the place where two roads meet.

# ask for the ancient pathways

The ancient pathways represent their ancestors's behavior, how their ancestors lived long ago. AT: "ask about the pathways that your ancestors walked on" or "ask about how your ancestors behaved" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metaphor]])

# Where is this good way

Possible meanings are 1) "this good way" represents the good way to live. AT: "What is the good way to live" or 2) "this good way" represents the way to live that results in blessings. AT: "Where is the way to what is good" or "What is the way to live that results in blessing" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metaphor]])

# Then go on it

"Then walk on that path." Going on that path represents living that way. AT: "Then live that way" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metaphor]])

# We will not go

This represents not living that way. AT: "We will not live that way" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metaphor]])

# I appointed for you watchmen to listen for the trumpet

Yahweh speaks of his prophets as if they were watchmen who were sent to warn the people of danger. (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metaphor]])

# appointed for you

The word "you" refers to the people of Israel.

# to listen for the trumpet

"to listen to the sound of the trumpet." Yahweh speaks of his warning messages to his prophets as if the messages were a trumpet being blown to warn people about the danger that would come. The prophets were to listen to the warning and tell the people about it.

# Therefore, nations, listen! See, you witnesses, what will happen to them. Hear, earth! See

These three sentences all are telling the people of other nations to witness what Yahweh will do to the rebellious people of Judah. AT: "You other nations, see what I will do to my people"(See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-parallelism]] and [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-apostrophe]])

# Therefore, nations, listen!

"Therefore, nation, listen to what I am about to say!"

# I am about to bring disaster to this people

"soon I will punish these people severely"

# you witnesses

"you who are witnesses"

# will happen to them

The word "them" refers to the people of Israel.

# Hear, earth

The word "earth" represents the people of the earth. AT: "Hear, people that live on the earth" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metonymy]])

# the fruit of their thoughts

Here the word "fruit" represents results or consequences. AT: "the consequences of their thoughts" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metaphor]])

# They paid no attention to my word or law, but they instead rejected it

Here "paid no attention to my word" refers to not listening to what God said, and "rejected it" refers to refusing to obey God's law. AT: "They did not listen to what I said. Instead they disobeyed my law" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-explicit]])

# translationWords

* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/yahweh]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/good]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/rest]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/appoint]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/watch]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/trumpet]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/nation]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/witness]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/earth]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/fruit]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/wordofgod]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/lawofmoses]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/reject]]