# What does this frankincense going up from Sheba mean to me? Or these sweet smells from a distant land?

God uses these questions to rebuke the people. AT: "Frankincense from Sheba and sweet smelling cane from a distant land mean nothing to me." or "I do not want your burnt offerings of frankincense from Sheba or sweet smelling cane from a distant land." (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-rquestion]])

# these sweet smells

People would burn sweet smelling cane as an offering to God.

# are not acceptable to me

"do not please me" or "do not make me happy"

# See, I

"Pay attention, because what I am about to say is both true and important: I"

# I am about to place a stumbling block against this people

"I am about to put obstacles in front of this people." Yahweh speaks of the troubles that he will make happen to the people of Israel as if they were a blocks that people stumble over. (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metaphor]])

# They will stumble over it

Here "stumble over it" represents being harmed by the troubles. (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metaphor]])

# fathers and sons together

The phrase "will stumble" is understood from the previous phrase. AT: "fathers and sons will both stumble" or "fathers and sons will both be hurt" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-ellipsis]])

# Inhabitants and their neighbors

"Neighbors and their friends"

# a people is coming

Their purpose can be made clear. AT: "a people is coming to attack you" or "an army is coming" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-explicit]])

# a great nation

Here "nation" represents the army of the nation. AT: "the army of a great nation" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-synecdoche]])

# is being stirred up from the farthest parts of the earth

Being "stirred up" represents preparing to do something. AT: "is being prepared to come from a distant land" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metaphor]])

# translationWords

* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/frankincense]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/names/sheba]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/burntoffering]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/sacrifice]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/stumblingblock]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/peopleofgod]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/stumble]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/neighbor]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/perish]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/yahweh]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/peoplegroup]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/nation]]