# General Information:

In verses 6-12, Yahweh is speaking to the people of Israel.

# the house of Judah

The word "house" is a metonym for the family that lives in the house. In this case it refers to the kingdom of Judah, which included the descendants of Judah and Benjamin. AT: "Judah" or "the kingdom of Judah" or "the people of Judah" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metonymy]])

# the house of Joseph

The word "house" is a metonym for the family that lives in the house. In this case it refers to the kingdom of Israel. AT: "Israel" or "the kingdom of Israel" or "the people of Israel" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metonymy]])

# I had not cast them off

This speaks of the people as a torn or dirty garment that Yahweh took off and threw away. This symbolizes rejection. AT: "I had not rejected them" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metaphor]] and [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/translate-symaction]])

# Ephraim will be like a warrior

"Ephraim" refers here to the northern kingdom of Israel. Warriors are strong. AT: "Ephraim will be very strong" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-simile]])

# their hearts will rejoice as with wine

Here "hearts" refers to the whole person. They will have the same joy as a person who is enjoying drinking wine. AT: "and they will be very happy" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-synecdoche]] and [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-simile]])

# their children will see and rejoice. Their hearts will rejoice in me!

"their children will see what has taken place and will be happy because of what Yahweh has done for them!"