# in full

"fully" or "totally"

# add one-fifth

This means the person must return what he owes to someone and pay an extra one-fifth of the value. See how you translated this in [Leviticus 5:16](../05/14.md). (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/translate-fraction]])

# to pay him to whom it is owed

This can be translated in active form. AT: "to pay the person he owes" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-activepassive]])

# he is found guilty

The person who stole is to be brought before the judge and be declared guilty. This can be stated in active form. AT: "the judge declares him guilty" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-explicit]] and [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-activepassive]])

# worth the current value

This means the person must determine how many shekels the ram is worth by using the official standard of the sacred tent. You can make clear the understood information. See how this was translated in [Leviticus 5:15](../05/14.md). (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-ellipsis]])

# The priest will make atonement for him

The abstract noun "atonement" can be stated as a verb. AT: "The priest will atone for him" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-abstractnouns]])

# before Yahweh

"in the presence of Yahweh"

# he will be forgiven

This means Yahweh will forgive the person, not the priest. This can be translated in active form. AT: "God will forgive him" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-activepassive]])

# translationWords

* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/restore]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/guilt]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/guiltoffering]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/yahweh]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/sheep]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/blemish]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/flock]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/worthy]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/priest]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/atonement]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/forgive]]