# Rise up

David speaks of starting to do something as getting up. AT: "Take action" or "Do something" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metonymy]])

# hit all my enemies ... break the teeth of the wicked

These phrases say very similar things. The phrases "my enemies" and "the wicked" refer to the same group of people. (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-parallelism]])

# For you will hit all my enemies on the jaw

This was a way of insulting people. David speaks as if Yahweh would come and physically hit his enemies. AT: "For you will insult all my enemies like someone hitting them on the jaw" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/translate-symaction]] and [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metaphor]])

# you will break the teeth of the wicked

Animals attack with their teeth. Breaking their teeth takes away their power to attack. David speaks as if Yahweh would come and physically fight against the wicked. AT: "you will make the wicked unable to harm me like someone breaking the teeth of a ferocious animal" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metaphor]])

# Salvation comes from Yahweh

The abstract noun "salvation" can be expressed with the verb "save." AT: "Yahweh saves his people" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-abstractnouns]])

# translationWords

* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/raise]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/save]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/adversary]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/evil]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/save]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/bless]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/peoplegroup]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/selah]]