## translationWords

* [[en:tw:ephraim]]
* [[en:tw:ephraim|Ephraim]]
* [[en:tw:fruit]]
* [[en:tw:grain]]
* [[en:tw:grain|grain]]
* [[en:tw:idol]]
* [[en:tw:idol|idol, idolatrous]]
* [[en:tw:lebanon]]
* [[en:tw:lebanon|Lebanon]]
* [[en:tw:peoplegroup]]
* [[en:tw:peoplegroup|people group, people, poor (the poor)]]
* [[en:tw:vine]]
* [[en:tw:vine|vine]]
* [[en:tw:wine]]
* [[en:tw:wine|wine]]

## translationNotes

* Yahweh is speaking.
* **The people who live in his shade will return** - Shade is signifying they will provide protection for others. (See: [[:en:ta:vol1:translate:figs_metaphor]])
* **they will revive like grain** - The people of Israel will sustain itself with food. (See: [[:en:ta:vol1:translate:figs_simile]])
* **and blossom like vines** - The people will sustain itself with drink. (See: [[:en:ta:vol1:translate:figs_simile]])
* **His fame will be like the wine of Lebanon** - AT: "recollection of him is like the wine of Lebanon." Israel will be remembered in the way you remember a good wine. (See: [[:en:ta:vol1:translate:figs_simile]])
* **What more have I to do with idols?** - This question stated by the people (Ephraim) emphasizes that they will not worship idols any more. (See: [[:en:ta:vol1:translate:figs_rquestion]])
* **a cypress whose leaves are always green** - a beautiful tree whose foliage stays green all year; this represents Yahweh and his blessings on Israel. (see: [[:en:ta:vol1:translate:figs_simile]])
* **from me comes your fruit ** - Yahweh is reminding Israel that every good thing represented by fruit is received from him. (see: [[:en:ta:vol1:translate:figs_metaphor]])
