# The Son is the image of the invisible God

Here "image" does not mean a representation of something that is visible. Instead, "image" here means that by knowing the Son, we learn what God the Father is like. (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metaphor]])

# Son

This is an important title for Jesus, the Son of God. (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/guidelines-sonofgodprinciples]])

# He is the firstborn

"The Son is the firstborn." The expression "firstborn Son" does not refer to Jesus' birth in Bethlehem. Instead, it refers to the Son's position as the eternal Son of God the Father. In this sense, "firstborn" is a metaphor meaning "most important." Jesus is the most important and the unique "Son" of God. He is God. The word "Son" shows Jesus' intimate relationship with the Father. That relationship cannot be understood until and unless you use your language's words for "son" and "father." (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metaphor]])

# For by him all things were created

This can be stated in active form. AT: "For by him God created all things" or "God caused the Son to create all things" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-activepassive]])

# all things were created by him and for him

This can be stated in active form. God caused the Son to create all things for the Son's glory. AT: "For by him and for him God created all things" or "God caused him to create all things for himself" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-activepassive]])

# He himself is before all things

"It is he who existed before all things"

# in him all things hold together

Paul is speaking here of the Son controlling all things as if he were physically holding them together. "he holds everything together" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-activepassive]] and [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metaphor]])

# translationWords

* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/sonofgod]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/imageofgod]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/god]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/firstborn]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/creation]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/heaven]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/throne]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/dominion]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/authority]]