## translationWords

* [[en:tw:Christ]]
* [[en:tw:God]]
* [[en:tw:blameless]]
* [[en:tw:creation]]
* [[en:tw:death]]
* [[en:tw:evil]]
* [[en:tw:faith]]
* [[en:tw:flesh]]
* [[en:tw:goodnews]]
* [[en:tw:heaven]]
* [[en:tw:holy]]
* [[en:tw:paul]]
* [[en:tw:proclaim]]
* [[en:tw:reconcile]]
* [[en:tw:servant]]

## translationNotes

* **And you also** - "And you Colossian believers also".
* **were strangers from God** - The Greek word contains an element of choice.  AT: "were alienated from God" or "had pushed God away" or "were hostile toward God".
* **were his enemies in your mind and by your evil deeds** - were his enemies because you thought evil thoughts and because you did evil deeds. (UDB)
* **God has reconciled you in the body of Christ's flesh through death** - When God reconciled you to Christ, he did not see Christ, but you on the cross such that when christ died, he saw you die.
* **blameless** - "without blame"
* **unreproveable** - "without accusation". Cannot be accused of any sin.
* **before himself** - "before God himself"
* **continue grounded** - "continue to be firmly established" or "stable"
* **settled in the faith** - "steadfast" or "secure"
* **the confidence of the gospel** - "being confident in the gospel".
* ** that was proclaimed in all the creation under heaven, the gospel that I, Paul, became a servant** - "that people proclaimed the gospel in all the creation under heaven. This is the same gospel that I, Paul, proclaim in serving God." (See: [[en:ta:vol2:translate:figs_activepassive]])
