# I fill up in my flesh what is lacking of the afflictions of Christ

Paul speaks about the suffering that he continues to experience. He may be acknowledging here that there is much suffering that he and all other Christians must endure before Christ comes again, and that Christ in a spiritual sense joins with them in experiencing these hardships. Paul certainly does not mean that Christ's sufferings alone were not enough to provide salvation for the believers.

# I fill up in my flesh

Paul speaks of his body as if it were a container that could hold suffering. (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metaphor]])

# for the sake of his body, which is the church

Paul often speaks of the church, the group of all Christian believers, as if it were Christ's body. (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metaphor]])

# to fulfill the word of God

This means to bring about the purpose of God's gospel message, which is that it be preached and believed. (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metaphor]])

# This is the secret truth that was hidden

This can be stated in active form. AT: "This is the secret truth that God had hidden" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-activepassive]])

# for ages and for generations

The words "ages" and "generations" refer to the time period from the creation of the world until the time when the gospel was preached.

# now it has been revealed

This can be stated in active form. AT: "now God has revealed it" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-activepassive]])

# the riches of the glory of this secret truth

Paul speaks of the value of this secret truth about God as if it were a treasure of material wealth. "riches" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metaphor]])

# Christ is in you

Paul speaks of the believers as if they were actual containers in which Christ is present. This is one of his ways of expressing the union of the believers with Christ. (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metaphor]])

# the hope of glory

"so you can confidently expect to share in God's glory"

# translationWords

* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/rejoice]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/suffer]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/flesh]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/afflict]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/christ]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/church]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/serve]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/god]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/true]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/believe]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/glory]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/gentile]]