# The word of Yahweh came

This is an idiom that is used to introduce something that God told his prophets or his people. See how you translated this in [Ezekiel 3:16](../03/16.md). AT: "Yahweh spoke this message" or "Yahweh spoke these words" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-idiom]])

# set your face toward Gog, the land of Magog, the chief prince ... Tubal

This is a command to stare at Gog and Magog as a symbol of punishing the people there. See how you translated a similar phrase in [Ezekiel 4:3](../04/01.md). AT: "Stare at the land of Magog and at Gog, the chief prince ... Tubal" or "Stare at Gog, the chief prince ... Tubal, and at the land of Magog so that they will be harmed" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/translate-symaction]])

# set your face

Here "face" is a metonym for attention or gaze, and "set your face" represents staring. AT: "stare" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metonymy]])

# Gog, the land of Magog

It is implied that Magog is the land over which Gog rules. AT: "Gog who rules over the land of Magog" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-explicit]])

# Gog

This is the name of a leader or king who ruled in the land of Magog. (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/translate-names]])

# Magog

This is the name of an ancient nation that was probably located in the land that is now Turkey. Magog might be the ancient nation of Lydia.

# the chief prince of Meshech and Tubal

This expression occurs twice in these verses. Some modern versions, however, interpret the Hebrew expression as "the chief of Rosh, Meshech, and Tubal." This is another title for Gog. AT: "who is the chief prince of Meshech and Tubal" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-explicit]])

# Meshech ... Tubal

See how you translated these names in [Ezekiel 32:26](../32/26.md).

# Behold!

This emphasizes the importance of the statement that follows. It can be translated as "Look!" or "Listen!" or "Pay attention to what I am about to tell you!"

# I am against you

This idiom means "I am your enemy." (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-idiom]])