# set your face toward Gog, the land of Magog, the chief prince ... Tubal

This is a command to stare at Gog and Magog as a symbol of punishing the people there. See how you translated a similar phrase in [Ezekiel 4:3](../04/03.md). Alternate translation: "Stare at the land of Magog and at Gog, the chief prince ... Tubal" or "Stare at Gog, the chief prince ... Tubal, and at the land of Magog so that they will be harmed" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/translate-symaction]])

# set your face

Here "face" is a metonym for attention or gaze, and "set your face" represents staring. Alternate translation: "stare" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metonymy]])

# Gog, the land of Magog

It is implied that Magog is the land over which Gog rules. Alternate translation: "Gog who rules over the land of Magog" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-explicit]])

# Gog

This is the name of a leader or king who ruled in the land of Magog. (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/translate-names]])

# Magog

This is the name of an ancient nation that was probably located in the land that is now Turkey. Magog might be the ancient nation of Lydia.

# the chief prince of Meshech and Tubal

This expression occurs twice in these verses. Some modern versions, however, interpret the Hebrew expression as "the chief of Rosh, Meshech, and Tubal." This is another title for Gog. Alternate translation: "who is the chief prince of Meshech and Tubal" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-explicit]])

# Meshech ... Tubal

See how you translated these names in [Ezekiel 32:26](../32/26.md).

