# Connecting Statement:

Yahweh continues speaking to Gog.

# on that day that

"at that time"

# plans will form in your heart ... you will devise wicked schemes

These phrases mean the same thing and can be combined into a single phrase. AT: "you will plan to do something very evil" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-doublet]])

# plans will form in your heart

Here "heart" refers to his thinking. This can be stated in active form. AT: "you will think of plans" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metonymy]])

# I will

Gog will not do these things alone. His army will do most of them. AT: "My army and I will" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-synecdoche]])

# the open land

The following phrases explain that this refers to a land without walls or bars or gates.

# capture booty and steal plunder

These phrases mean the same thing and can be combined into a single phrase. AT: "take away all their valuable possessions" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-doublet]])

# bring my hand

Here "hand" refers to Gog's military power. (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metonymy]])

# against the ruins

Here "ruins" refers to the people who live in the destroyed cities. AT: "against the people who live in the ruins" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metonymy]])

# at the center of the earth

"in the middle of the most important countries in the world"

# translationWords

* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/lordyahweh]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/heart]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/evil]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/life]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/gate]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/hand]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/ruin]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/nation]]