# General Information:

Yahweh continues giving Ezekiel his message about Gog. He speaks of the people of Gog as if they were one man. (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metaphor]])

# I will summon a sword against him

The word "sword" here is a metonym for soldiers who use swords to kill people. AT: "I will cause soldiers to attack him" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metonymy]])

# on all my mountains

This refers to the land of Israel. AT: "on all the mountains of Israel" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-explicit]])

# each man's sword will be against his brother

Here "sword" is a metonym for the person who uses the sword to fight. AT: "all of his soldiers will fight each other" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metonymy]])

# his brother

"his fellow soldier"

# I will judge him by plague and blood

Here "blood" is a metonym for injury and death. AT: "I will judge him by causing him to be sick and by sending soldiers to kill him" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metonymy]])

# overflowing rain and hailstones and burning sulfur I will rain down upon him

It may be helpful to change the order of this sentence. AT: "I will rain down overflowing rain and hailstones and burning sulfur upon him"

# hailstones

ice that falls out of the sky

# show my greatness and my holiness

The abstract nouns "greatness" and "holiness" can be stated as adjectives. AT: "show that I am great and holy" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-abstractnouns]])

# I will make myself known in the eyes of the many nations

Here "eyes" refers to sight, which is a metonym for understanding. AT: "I will cause many nations to understand who I am" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metonymy]])

# know that I am Yahweh

When Yahweh says that people will know that he is Yahweh, he is implying that they will know that he is the one true God who has supreme authority and power. See how you translated this in [Ezekiel 6:7](../06/06.md). AT: "understand that I am Yahweh, the one true God" or "realize that I, Yahweh, have supreme power and authority" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-explicit]])