# the gods that I made

Micah did not make his gods, rather the craftsman made them. AT: "the gods which I had made for me" or "the gods which a craftsman made for me" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metonymy]])

# What else do I have left?

Micah asks this question to emphasize that he no longer has the things that are important to him. AT: "I have nothing left." or "You have taken everything that is important to me." (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-rquestion]])

# How can you ask me, 'What is bothering you?'

Micah asks this question to emphasize that the Danites definitely know what is bothering him. AT: "You know that I am greatly distressed!'" or "You know how much I am bothered by what you have done to me!'" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-rquestion]])

# let us hear you say anything

The phrase "us hear you say" refers to the Danites hearing Micah speaking about what had happened, but it also includes if they are told by others that Micah had spoken about what had happened. AT: "let us find out that you have said anything" or "say anything about this" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metonymy]])

# hear you say anything

The word "anything" refers to any information about the Danites coming to Micah's house and stealing his idols. This can be stated clearly. AT: "hear you say anything about this matter" or "hear you say anything about what has happened" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-explicit]])

# you and your family will be killed

This can be stated in active form. AT: "kill you and your family" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-activepassive]])

# went their way

This means that they continued on their journey. AT: "continued on their journey" or "continued travelling" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-idiom]])

# they were too strong for him

This refers to the Danites being too strong for Micah and his men to fight against. AT: "they were too strong for him and his men to fight" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-explicit]])