# General Information:

Habakkuk continues to describe his vision of Yahweh.

# He stood

This means that Yahweh stopped walking and stood still, not that he stood up from a seated position.

# measured the earth

Possible meanings are 1) the word translated as "measured" can be "shook" or 2) he surveyed the earth the way a conqueror would before assigning portions to his governors.

# eternal mountains ... everlasting hills

"mountains that have existed since the beginning of time ... hills that will exist until the end of time." If your language has no different words for "hills" and "mountains" or for "eternal" and "everlasting," you can combine them as the UDB has done.

# Even the eternal mountains were shattered

This can be stated in active form. AT: "Even the eternal mountains crumbled" or "He shattered even the eternal mountains" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-activepassive]])

# the everlasting hills bowed down

The hills being flattened like level ground is spoken of as if they were people who bow down before Yahweh. AT: "the everlasting hills collapsed" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-personification]])

# His path is everlasting

Possible meanings are 1) the words "His path" may be a metaphor that speaks of Yahweh and his actions as a path on which he walks. AT: "He is everlasting" or 2) Habakkuk speaks of the path upon which Yahweh walks in the vision as being everlasting, indicating that this is the same path that Yahweh had taken in ancient times. AT: "He walks along an ancient path" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metaphor]])