# For if the message that was spoken through the angels

The Jews believed that God spoke his law to Moses through angels. This can be stated in active form. AT: "For if the message that God spoke through the angels" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-explicit]] and [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-activepassive]])

# For if the message

The author is certain that these things are true. AT: "Because the message"

# every trespass and disobedience receives just punishment

Here "trespass" and "disobedience" stand for the people who are guilty of these sins. AT: "every person who sins and disobeys will receive just punishment" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metonymy]])

# trespass and disobedience

These two words mean basically the same thing. (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-doublet]])

# how then can we escape if we ignore so great a salvation?

The author uses a question to emphasize that the people will certainly receive punishment if they refuse God's salvation through Christ. AT: "then God will certainly punish us if we do not pay attention to his message about how God will save us!" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-rquestion]])

# ignore

"do not care for" or "consider unimportant"

# This is salvation that was first announced by the Lord and confirmed to us by those who heard it

This can be stated in active form. The abstract noun "salvation" can be translated with a verbal phrase. AT: "The Lord himself first announced the message about how God will save us and then those who heard the message confirmed it to us" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-activepassive]] and [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-abstractnouns]])

# according to his will

"in just the way he wanted to do it"

# translationWords

* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/angel]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/trespass]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/disobey]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/receive]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/justice]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/punish]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/save]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/lord]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/confirm]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/god]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/testimony]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/miracle]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/gift]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/holyspirit]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/willofgod]]