# Connecting Statement:

The writer reminds these Hebrew believers that the earth will one day be under the rule of the Lord Jesus.

# General Information:

The quotation here is from the book of Psalms in the Old Testament. It continues on through the next section.

# For it was not to the angels that God subjected

"For God did not make the angels rulers over"

# the world to come

Here "world" refers to the people who live there. And "to come" means that this is the world in the next age after Christ returns. AT: "the people who will live in the new world" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metonymy]])

# What is man, that you are mindful of him?

This rhetorical question emphasizes the insignificance of humans and expresses surprise that God would pay attention to them. AT: "Humans are insignificant, and yet you are mindful of them!" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-rquestion]])

# Or a son of man, that you care for him?

The idiom "son of man" refers to human beings. This rhetorical question means basically the same thing as the first question. It expresses surprise that God would care for humans, who are insignificant. AT: "Human beings are of little importance, and yet you care for them!" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-idiom]] and [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-parallelism]] and [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-rquestion]])

# Or a son of man

The verb may be supplied from the previous question. AT: "Or what is a son of man" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-ellipsis]])