# Connecting Statement:

The writer reminds these Hebrew believers that Christ became lower than the angels when he came to earth to suffer death for forgiveness of sins, and that he became a merciful high priest to believers.

# we see him

"we know there is one"

# who was made

This can be stated in active form. AT: "whom God made" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-activepassive]])

# lower than the angels ... crowned with glory and honor

See how you translated these words in [Hebrews 2:7](./07.md).

# he might taste death

The experience of death is spoken of as if it were food that people can taste. AT: "he might experience death" or "he might die" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metaphor]])

# bring many sons to glory

The gift of glory is spoken of here as if it were a place to which people could be brought. AT: "save many sons" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metaphor]])

# many sons

Here this refers to believers in Christ, including males and females. AT: "many believers" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-gendernotations]])

# the leader of their salvation

Possible meanings are 1) this is a metaphor in which the writer speaks of salvation as if it were a destination and of Jesus as the person who goes before the people on the road and leads them to salvation. AT: "the one who leads people to salvation" or 2) the word translated here as "leader" can mean "founder" and the author speaks of Jesus as the one who establishes salvation, or makes it possible for God to save people. AT: "the one who makes their salvation possible" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metaphor]])

# complete

Becoming mature and completely trained is spoken of as if a person were made complete, perhaps complete in all his body parts. (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metaphor]])

# translationWords

* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/jesus]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/suffer]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/grace]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/son]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/salvation]]