# General Information:

The prophet Isaiah wrote these quotations.

# And again,

"And a prophet wrote in another scripture passage what Christ said about God:"

# the children ... the children of God

This speaks about those who believe in Christ as if they were children. AT: "those who are like my children ... those who are like children to God" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metaphor]])

# share flesh and blood

The phrase "flesh and blood" refers to people's human nature. AT: "are all human beings" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-idiom]])

# Jesus also shared the same things with them

"Jesus became human like them"

# through death

Here "death" can be stated as a verb. AT: "by dying" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-abstractnouns]])

# had the power of death

Here "death" can be stated as a verb. AT: "had the power to cause people to die" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-abstractnouns]])

# This was so that he would free all those who through fear of death lived all their lives in slavery

The fear of death is spoken of as if it were slavery. Taking away someone's fear is spoken of as it were freeing that person from slavery. AT: "This was so he might free all people. For we lived like slaves because we were afraid of dying" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metaphor]])

# translationWords

* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/trust]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/flesh]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/blood]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/death]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/power]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/free]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/servant]]