# For what if some Jews were without faith? Will their unbelief abolish God's faithfulness?

Paul uses these questions to make people think. AT: "Some Jews have not been faithful to God. Should we conclude from this that God will not fulfill his promise?" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-rquestion]])

# May it never be

This expression strongly denies that this could happen. You may have an expression in your language that you could use here. "That is not possible!" or "Certainly not!"

# Instead, let

"We should say this instead, let"

# let God be found to be true

God will always be true and will keep his promises. AT: "God always does what he has promised" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-explicit]])

# even though every man is a liar

The words "every" and "liar" are exaggerations here to add emphasis that God alone is always true to his promises. AT: "even if every man were a liar" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-hyperbole]])

# As it has been written

You can translate this in an active form. AT: "The Scriptures themselves agree with what I am saying" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-activepassive]])

# That you might be shown to be righteous in your words, and that you might prevail when you come into judgment

These two phrases have very similar meanings. You can translate this in an active form. AT: "Everyone must acknowledge that what you say is true, and you will always win your case when anyone accuses you" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-parallelism]] and [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-activepassive]])

# translationWords

* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/jew]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/faith]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/believe]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/faithful]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/true]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/written]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/righteous]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/judge]]