# Connecting Statement:

The word "but" here shows Paul has completed his introduction and is now beginning to make his main point.

# now

The word "now" refers to the time since Jesus came to the earth.

# apart from the law the righteousness of God has been made known

You can translate this in an active form. AT: "God has made known a way to be right with him without obeying the law" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-activepassive]])

# It was witnessed by the law and the Prophets

The words "the law and the Prophets" refer to the parts of scripture that Moses and the prophets wrote in the Jewish scriptures. Paul describes them here as if they were people testifying in court. You can translate this in an active form. AT: "What Moses and the prophets wrote confirms this" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-personification]] and [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-activepassive]])

# the righteousness of God through faith in Jesus Christ

Here "righteousness" means being right with God. AT: "being right with God through trusting Jesus Christ" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-explicit]])

# For there is no distinction

Paul implies that God accepts all people in the same way. AT: "There is no difference at all between the Jews and the Gentiles" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-explicit]])

# translationWords

* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/lawofmoses]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/righteous]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/testimony]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/prophet]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/faith]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/believe]]