# Look

"Listen carefully"

# Days are coming ... when I will do

Future time is spoken of as if the "Days are coming." See how you translated this metaphor in [Jeremiah 7:32](../07/31.md). AT: "In the future ... I will do" or "There will be a time ... when I will do" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metaphor]])

# this is Yahweh's declaration

Yahweh speaks of himself by name to express the certainty of what he is declaring. See how you translated this in [Jeremiah 1:8](../01/07.md). AT: "this is what Yahweh has declared" or "this is what I, Yahweh, have declared" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-123person]])

# the house of Israel

The word "house" is a metonym for the family that lives in the house. In this case it refers to the kingdom of Israel. See how you translated this in [Jeremiah 3:18](../03/17.md). AT: "Israel" or "the kingdom of Israel" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metonymy]])

# the house of Judah

The word "house" is a metonym for the family that lives in the house. In this case it refers to the kingdom of Judah, which included the descendants of Judah and Benjamin. See how you translated this in [Jeremiah 3:18](../03/17.md). AT: "Judah" or "the kingdom of Judah" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metonymy]])

# In those days and in that time

The phrase "in that time" means the same thing as, and intensifies the phrase "In those days." AT: "In those very days" or "At that very time" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-doublet]])

# I will make a righteous branch to grow for David

Yahweh speaks of a descendant of David as if he were a branch off of a tree trunk. AT: "I will cause a righteous man to come from and bring glory to the line of David" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metaphor]])

# the land

the nation of Israel (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metonymy]])

# Judah ... Jerusalem

These towns' names are metonyms for the people who live in the towns. AT: "the people of Judah ... the people of Jerusalem" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metonymy]])

# Judah will be saved

This can be translated in active form. AT: "I will save Judah" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-activepassive]])

# Jerusalem will live in security

"the people of Judah will be safe from their enemies"

# this is what she will be called

Yahweh speaks of Jerusalem as if the town were a woman. This can be translated in active form. AT: "this is what they will call her" or "this is what I will call the town" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metaphor]] and [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-activepassive]])

# translationWords

* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/yahweh]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/declare]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/promise]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/house]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/names/kingdomofisrael]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/names/kingdomofjudah]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/righteous]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/names/david]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/justice]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/save]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/names/jerusalem]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/life]]