# The wilderness and the Arabah will be glad; and the desert will rejoice

These two phrases have basically the same meaning. These places are described as being glad, like a person is glad, because they have received water and are blossoming. AT: "It will be like the wilderness and the Arabah are glad and the desert will rejoice" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-personification]] and [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-parallelism]])

# blossom

This speaks of the plants in the desert blossoming as if the desert itself were blossoming. AT: "its plants will blossom" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-synecdoche]])

# Like the rose, it will blossom abundantly

This compares the way the plants of the desert blossom to the way a rose has many blossoms. AT: "The desert will grow many new plants and trees" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-simile]])

# and rejoice with joy and singing

This speaks of the desert as if it were happy and singing like a person. AT: "it will be as though everything is rejoicing and singing!" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-personification]])

# the glory of Lebanon will be given to it

This can be stated in active form. This speaks of Yahweh making the desert looks as glorious as Lebanon as if he were giving the desert Lebanon's glory. AT: "Yahweh will give it the glory of Lebanon" or "Yahweh will make it as glorious as Lebanon" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-activepassive]] and [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metaphor]])

# the splendor of Carmel and Sharon

This speaks of Yahweh making the desert look beautiful as Carmel and Sharon as if he were giving the desert their splendor. The understood information may be supplied. AT: "the splendor of Carmel and Sharon will be given to it" or "Yahweh will make it as splendid as Carmel and Sharon" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metaphor]] and [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-ellipsis]])

# the glory of Yahweh, the splendor of our God

These two phrases mean basically the same thing and emphasize Yahweh's appearance. (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-doublet]])

# translationWords

* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/desert]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/names/arabah]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/rejoice]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/joy]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/glory]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/names/lebanon]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/splendor]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/names/carmel]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/names/sharon]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/yahweh]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/god]]