# General Information:

These verses begin a description of the glorious future for God's people.

# the eyes of the blind will see

"The blind" refers to people who are blind. They are referred to by their "eyes" to emphasize their healing. AT: "blind people will see" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-nominaladj]] and [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-synecdoche]])

# the ears of the deaf will hear

"The deaf" refers to people who cannot hear. They are referred to by their "ears" to emphasize their healing. AT: "deaf people will hear" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-nominaladj]] and [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-synecdoche]])

# the lame man will leap like a deer

Deer can jump far and high. Jumping like a deer is an exaggeration for being able to move about quickly and easily. AT: "the lame man will jump high" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-simile]] and [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-hyperbole]])

# the mute tongue will sing

This refers to people who cannot speak. They are referred to by their "tongues" to emphasize their healing. AT: "mute people will sing" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-synecdoche]])

# streams in the wilderness

The understood verb may be supplied. AT: "streams will flow in the wilderness" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-ellipsis]])

# The burning sand will become a pool

This means that a pool of water will appear in the hot sand. The full meaning of this statement can be made clear. AT: "A pool will appear in the burning sand" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-explicit]])

# the thirsty ground

Here the dry ground is described as being thirsty. AT: "the dry ground" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-personification]])

# the thirsty ground springs of water

This means that springs will appear in the dry ground. The full meaning of this statement can be made clear. AT: "springs of water will appear in the thirsty ground" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-explicit]])

# jackals

See how you translated this in [Isaiah 13:22](../13/21.md).

# reeds and rushes

These are plants that grow in wet areas.