# General Information:

These verses continue the description of the glorious future for God's people.

# A highway will be there called The Holy Way

This can be stated in active form. AT: "A highway will be there that has the name The Holy Way" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-activepassive]])

# highway

See how you translated this word in [Isaiah 11:16](../11/16.md).

# The unclean

This refers to unclean people. A person who God considers spiritually unacceptable or defiled is spoken of as if the person were physically unclean. AT: "Those who are unclean" or "People who are not acceptable to God" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-nominaladj]] and [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metaphor]])

# him who walks in it

This is an idiom. Here "walking" refers to "living." This refers to the person who lives a holy life. The full meaning of this statement can be made clear. AT: "who lives in the holy way" or "who lives a holy life" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-idiom]] and [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-explicit]])

# they will not be found there

This can be stated in active form. AT: "no one will find them there" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-activepassive]])

# the redeemed

This refers to people who God has redeemed. AT: "those who are redeemed" or "those who God has redeemed" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-nominaladj]])

# translationWords

* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/call]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/holy]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/unclean]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/walk]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/foolish]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/lion]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/redeem]]