# General Information:

Jesus approaches Jerusalem.

# It came about that

This phrase is used here to mark the beginning of a new event. If your language has a way for doing this, you could consider using it here. (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/writing-newevent]])

# when he came near

The word "he" refers to Jesus. His disciples were also traveling with him.

# Bethphage

Bethphage was (and still is) a village on the Mount of Olives, which is across the Kidron Valley from Jerusalem. (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/translate-names]])

# the hill that is called Olivet

"the hill that is called the Mount of Olives" or "the hill that is called 'Olive Tree Mountain'"


# a colt

"a young donkey" or "a young riding animal"

# that has never been ridden

This can be stated in active form. AT: "that no one has ever ridden" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-activepassive]])

# If anyone asks you ... need of it

Jesus tells the disciples how to answer a question that has not yet been asked. However, people in the village will soon ask the question. (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-hypo]])

# If anyone asks you, 'Why are you untying it?' say

The inner quote can also be translated as an indirect quote. AT: "If any one asks you why you are untying it, say" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-quotesinquotes]] and [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-quotations]])

# translationWords

* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/names/bethany]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/names/mountofolives]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/disciple]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/lord]]