# Connecting Statement:

Jesus continues speaking.

# For

What follows is the reason for Jesus' sadness.

# the days will come upon you when your enemies

This indicates that they will experience difficult times. Some languages do not talk about time "coming." AT: "in the future these things will happen to you: Your enemies" or "soon you will endure troublesome times. Your enemies"

# you ... your

The word "you" is singular because Jesus is speaking to the city as he would to a woman. But if this would be unnatural in your language, you could use a plural form of "you" to refer to the people of the city. (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-you]] and [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-apostrophe]])

# barricade

This refers to a wall to keep the people from getting out of the city.

# They will strike you down to the ground and your children with you

Jesus is speaking to the people of the city as if he were speaking to the city itself as he would speak to a woman. He speaks of the people who live in the city as if they are the woman's children, and thus the city's children. To strike down a city is to destroy its walls and buildings, and to strike down its children is to kill those who live in it. AT: "They will completely destroy you and kill all who live in you" or "They will completely destroy your city and kill all of you" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-apostrophe]])

# They will not leave one stone upon another

"They will not leave any of the stones in place." This is a hyperbole to express that the enemies will completely destroy the city, which is built of stones. (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-hyperbole]])

# you did not recognize it

"you did not acknowledge"

# translationWords

* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/adversary]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/god]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/save]]