# Connecting Statement:

Though Peter, James, and John wondered what Jesus might mean by "rising from the dead," they asked him instead about Elijah's coming.

# General Information:

The UDB uses a verse bridge to combine verses 12 and 13, giving the information Jesus is telling them in an order that is easier to understand. (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/translate-versebridge]])

# They asked him

The word "they" refers to Peter, James, and John.

# Why do the scribes say that Elijah must come first?

Prophecy foretold that Elijah would come again from heaven. Then the Messiah, who is the Son of Man, would come to rule and reign. Other prophecies also foretold that the Son of Man would suffer and be hated by people. The disciples are confused how both could be true.

# that Elijah must come first

The scribes taught that Elijah would come back to earth before the Messiah came. AT: "that Elijah must come first before the Messiah comes" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-explicit]])

# Then why is it written ... who is worthless?

As Jesus is teaching his disciples, he asks this question and then tells his disciples the answer. This may be expressed as a statement. AT: "But I also want you to consider what is written about the Son of Man. The scriptures say that he must suffer many things and be treated as one who is worthless" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-rquestion]])

# be treated as one who is worthless

This may be stated in active form. AT: "people will treat him as one who is worthless" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-activepassive]])

# they did whatever they wanted to him

It may be helpful to state what people did to him. AT: "our leaders treated him very badly, just as they wanted to do" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-explicit]])

# translationWords

* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/scribe]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/elijah]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/restore]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/written]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/sonofman]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/wordofgod]]