# Connecting Statement:

To explain what the scribes and other disciples were arguing about, a father of a demon-possessed man tells Jesus that he has asked the disciples to send the demon out of his son, but they could not. Jesus then casts the demon out of the boy. Later the disciples ask why they were not able to send the demon away.

# He has a spirit

This means the boy is possessed by an unclean spirit. "He has an unclean spirit" or "He is possessed by an unclean spirit" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-idiom]])

# he foams at the mouth

A convulsion, or seizure, can cause a person to have trouble breathing or swallowing. This causes white foam to come out of the mouth. If your language has a way to describe that, you could use it. AT: "bubbles come out of his mouth"

# he becomes rigid

"he becomes stiff" or "his body becomes rigid"

# they could not

This refers to the disciples not being about to drive the spirit out of the boy. AT: "they could not drive it out of him" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-ellipsis]])

# He answered them

Though it was the boy's father who made a request of Jesus, Jesus responds to the whole crowd. This can be made clear. AT: "Jesus responded to the crowd" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-explicit]])

# Unbelieving generation

"You unbelieving generation." Jesus calls the crowd this, as he begins to respond to them.

# how long will I have to stay with you? ... bear with you?

Jesus uses these questions to express his frustration. Both questions have the same meaning. They can be written as statements. AT: "I have become weary by your unbelief!" or "Your unbelief tires me! I wonder how long I must bear with you." (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-rquestion]] and [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-parallelism]])

# bear with you

"endure you" or "put up with you"

# Bring him to me

"Bring the boy to me"

# translationWords

* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/teacher]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/son]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/demon]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/disciple]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/castout]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/unbeliever]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/generation]]