# Connecting Statement:

Jesus and his disciples left the house where they had been after Jesus had healed the demon-possessed boy. He takes time to teach his disciples alone.

# They went out from there

"Jesus and his disciples left that region"

# passed through

"traveled through" or "passed by"

# for he was teaching his disciples

Jesus was teaching his disciples privately, away from the crowd. This can be stated clearly. AT: "for he was teaching his disciples privately" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-explicit]])

# The Son of Man

Here Jesus refers to himself as the Son of Man. This is an important title for Jesus. "I, the Son of Man," (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/guidelines-sonofgodprinciples]])

# into the hands of men

Here "hands" is a metonym for control. AT: "into the control of men" or "to the control of men" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metonymy]])

# When he has been put to death, after three days

This can be stated in active form. AT: "After they have put him to death and three days have passed," (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-activepassive]])

# they were afraid to ask him

They were afraid to ask Jesus what his statement meant. AT: "they were afraid to ask him what it meant" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-ellipsis]])

# translationWords

* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/galilee]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/jesus]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/disciple]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/sonofman]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/deliverer]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/hand]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/death]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/raise]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/understand]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/fear]]