# General Information:

Here Isaiah describes events that will happen in the future as if they happened in the past. This emphasizes that they certainly will happen. (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-pastforfuture]])

# General Information:

Isaiah continues describing Yahweh's servant.

# Who has believed what they heard from us

What Isaiah just found out is so amazing that he wonders if the exiles will believe it. The "we" includes him and those in exile. AT: "It is hard for anyone to believe what we have heard" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-inclusive]] and [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-rquestion]])

# to whom has the arm of Yahweh been revealed?

Arm refers to God's power. This can be stated in active form. AT: "Yahweh has revealed his power to people." (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metonymy]] and [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-activepassive]] and [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-rquestion]])

# For he grew up before Yahweh like a sapling

Here "he" refers to God's servant whom Isaiah compares to a very young tree. This emphasizes that he will appear weak. (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-simile]])

# out of parched earth

"parched earth" is hard and dry ground that will not allow plants to grow and represents where the servant of Yahweh will come. AT: "out of an impossible situation" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metaphor]])

# translationWords

* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/yahweh]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/reveal]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/earth]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/splendor]]