# General Information:

Isaiah continues describing Yahweh's servant. (See: [Isaiah 53:1-2](./01.md))

# By coercion and judgment he was condemned

This can be stated in active form. AT: "They treated him harshly, judged him, and condemned him" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-activepassive]])

# coercion

The Hebrew word translated here as "coercion" is interpreted by some versions as "arrest." For these versions, the thought is that the Servant will be arrested and then judged and condemned.

# who from that generation thought anymore about him?

This question emphasizes that no one thinks about him. AT: "no one from his generation cared what happened to him." or "no one among his contemporaries cared what happened to him." (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-rquestion]])

# who from that generation thought anymore about him?

Many versions interpret this passage in Hebrew differently: "Who can say anything about his descendants?" or "Who can say anything about his fate?"

# But he was cut off from the land of the living

"Cut off" here refers to death. This can be stated in active form. AT: "But he died" or "But death took him away" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-activepassive]] and [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-idiom]])

# of my people

"of the people of Israel"

# nor had there been any deceit in his mouth

"Mouth" represents what a person says. AT: "nor did he deceive anyone when he spoke" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metonymy]])

# translationWords

* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/judge]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/condemn]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/generation]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/cutoff]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/life]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/peopleofgod]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/tomb]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/deceive]]