# General Information:

Yahweh's servant continues speaking.

# that Israel would be gathered to him

This part of the sentence means the same as the part before it. This can be stated in active form. AT: "to bring the people of Israel back to himself" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-activepassive]] and [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-parallelism]])

# I am honored in the eyes of Yahweh

The eyes represent seeing, and seeing represents thoughts or judgment. This can be stated in active form. AT: "Yahweh has honored me" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metaphor]] and [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-activepassive]])

# my God has become my strength

God giving the servant strength is spoken of as if God himself were his strength. AT: "my God has given me strength" or "my God has strengthened me" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metaphor]])

# I will make you a light to the Gentiles

The servant bringing Yahweh's message to the Gentiles and helping them to understand it is spoken of as if Yahweh made the servant a light that shines among the Gentiles. See how you translated a similar phrase in [Isaiah 42:6](../42/05.md). (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metaphor]])

# to the ends of the earth

The places on the earth that are very far away are spoken of as if they were the places where the earth ends. This phrase also forms a merism and refers to everywhere in between the ends. AT "to all the farthest places of the earth" or "to the entire earth" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metaphor]] and [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-merism]])

# translationWords

* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/yahweh]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/servant]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/restore]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/names/jacob]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/israel]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/honor]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/god]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/tribe]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/light]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/gentile]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/salvation]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/earth]]