# General Information:

Yahweh continues speaking to Zion. (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-personification]])

# I have inscribed your name on my palms

Yahweh speaks of his unwavering devotion to Zion as if he had written her name on the palms of his hands. (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metaphor]])

# your walls are continually before me

Yahweh speaks of always thinking about Zion as if her walls were always before him. The word "walls" is a metonym for the city. AT: "I am continually thinking about your walls" or "I am always thinking about you" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metaphor]] and [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metonymy]])

# Your children are hurrying back

Yahweh speaks of the people who are returning to live in Jerusalem as if they were the city's children. AT: "Your inhabitants are hurrying back" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metaphor]])

# As surely as I live

This is an oath formula that Yahweh uses to guarantee the truth of what he is saying.

# this is Yahweh's declaration

Yahweh speaks of himself by name to express the certainty of what he is declaring. Translate as in [Isaiah 30:1](../30/01.md). AT: "this is what Yahweh has declared" or "this is what I, Yahweh, have declared" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-123person]])

# you will surely wear them like jewelry, and you will put them on like a bride

Yahweh speaks of the inhabitants of Zion as if they were jewelry that the city wears to show her beauty and joy. (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metaphor]])

# you will put them on like a bride

The last part of the phrase can be clarified from the previous line. AT: "you will put them on, like a bride wears jewelry" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-ellipsis]])