# bowed down

This means to bend over or kneel down very low to humbly express respect and honor toward someone. (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/writing-symlanguage]])

# to the people of the land, to the sons of Heth

"to the sons of Heth who lived in the area"

# the sons of Heth

Here "sons" stands for those who descended from Heth. See how you translated this in [Genesis 23:3](./03.md). AT: "the descendants of Heth" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/translate-names]])

# my dead

The nominal adjective "dead" can be stated as a verb or simply as "wife." AT: "my wife who has died" or "my wife" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-nominaladj]])

# Ephron ... Zohar

These are names of men. (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/translate-names]])

# the cave of Machpelah, which he owns, which is at the end of his field

"his cave that is at the end of his field in Machpelah"

# the cave of Machpelah

"the cave in Machpela." Machpela was the name of an area or region. Ephron owned a field in Machpela and the cave that was in the field. (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/translate-names]])

# which he owns

This tells something about the cave. Ephron owned the cave. (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-distinguish]])

# which is at the end of his field

This also tells something about the cave. The cave was at the end of Ephron's field. (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-distinguish]])

# sell it to me publicly

"sell it to me in front of you all" or "sell it to me in your presence"

# as a property

"as a piece of land that I may own and use"

# translationWords

* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/abraham]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/bow]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/tomb]]