# Now Ephron was sitting among the sons of Heth

Here "Now" is used here to mark a change from the story to background information about Ephron. (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/writing-background]])

# Ephron

This is the name of a man. See how you translated this in [Genesis 23:8](./07.md). (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/translate-names]])

# the sons of Heth

Here "sons" stands for those who descended from Heth. See how you translated this in [Genesis 23:3](./03.md). AT: "the descendants of Heth" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/translate-names]])

# in the hearing of the sons of Heth

The abstract noun "the hearing" can be stated as "hear" or "listening." AT: "so that all the sons of Heth could hear him" or "while all the sons of Heth were listening" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-abstractnouns]])

# all those who had come into the gate of his city

This tells which sons of Heth were listening. AT: "all those who had gathered at the gate of his city" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-distinguish]])

# gate of his city

The city gate was where the leaders of the city would meet to make important decisions.

# his city

"the city where he lived." This phrase shows that Ephron belonged to that city. It does not mean that he owned it.

# my master

This phrase is used to show respect to Abraham.

# in the presence of the sons of my people

Here "presence" stands for the people serving as witnesses. AT: "with my fellow countrymen as my witnesses" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metonymy]])

# sons of my people

This means "my fellow countrymen" or "my fellow Hittites"

# my people

This phrase shows that Ephron was part of that group of people. It does not mean that he was their leader.

# I give it to you to bury your dead

"I give it to you. Bury your dead"

# your dead

The nominal adjective "dead" can be stated as a verb or simply as "wife." AT: "your wife who has died" or "your wife" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-nominaladj]])