# Ephron

This is the name of a man. See how you translated this in [Genesis 23:8](./07.md). (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/translate-names]])

# Please, my master, listen to me

"Hear me, my master" or "Listen to me, kind sir"

# my master

This phrase is used to show respect to Abraham.

# A piece of land worth four hundred shekels of silver, what is that between me and you?

Ephron meant that since he and Abraham were both so wealthy, 400 pieces of silver was a small amount. This rhetorical question can be translated as a statement. AT: "The piece of land is worth only four hundred shekels of silver. For you and me, that is nothing." (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-rquestion]])

# four hundred shekels of silver

This is about 4.5 kilograms of silver. (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/translate-bweight]])

# four hundred

"400" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/translate-numbers]])

# Bury your dead

The nominal adjective "dead" can be stated as a verb or simply as "wife." AT: "Go bury your wife who has died" or "Go bury your wife" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-nominaladj]])

# Abraham weighed out to Ephron the amount of silver

"Abraham weighed the silver and gave Ephron the amount" or "Abraham counted out to Ephron the amount of silver"

# the amount of silver that he had spoken

"the amount of silver that Ephron had said"

# in the hearing of the sons of Heth

The abstract noun "the hearing" can be stated as "hear" or "listening." AT: "so that all the sons of Heth could hear him" or "while all the sons of Heth were listening" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-abstractnouns]])

# the sons of Heth

Here "sons" stands for those who descended from Heth. See how you translated this in [Genesis 23:3](./03.md). AT: "the descendants of Heth" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/translate-names]])

# according to the standard measurement of the merchants

"using the standard measurement of weight that merchants used." This can be stated as a new sentence. AT: "He weighed the silver the same way that the merchants used to weigh it"

# translationWords

* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/abraham]]