# Machpelah

Machpela was the name of an area or region. See how you translated this in [Genesis 23:9](./07.md). (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/translate-names]])

# Mamre

This was another name for the city of Hebron. It may have been named after Mamre, the friend of Abraham who lived there. (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/translate-names]])

# that is, the field, the cave that was in it, and all the trees

This phrase explains what the author meant when he wrote "the field of Ephron." It was not only the field, but also the cave and trees in the field.

# passed to Abraham by purchase

"became Abraham's possession when he purchased it" or "belonged to Abraham after he bought it"

# in the presence of the sons of Heth

Here "presence" stands for the people serving as witnesses. AT: "with the people of Heth watching as witnesses" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metonymy]])

# the sons of Heth

Here "sons" stands for those who descended from Heth. See how you translated this in [Genesis 23:3](./03.md). AT: "the descendants of Heth" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/translate-names]])

# all those who had come into the gate of his city

This tells which sons of Heth saw Abraham buy the property. See how you translated this in [Genesis 23:10](./10.md). (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-distinguish]])

# gate of his city

The city gate was where the leaders of the city would meet to make important decisions.

# his city

"the city where he lived." This phrase shows that Ephron belonged to that city. It does not mean that he owned it.

# translationWords

* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/names/abraham]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/gate]]