# the word of Yahweh came

This is an idiom that is used to introduce something that God told his prophets or his people. See how you translated this in [Ezekiel 3:16](../03/16.md). AT: "Yahweh spoke this message" or "Yahweh spoke these words" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-idiom]])

# Son of man

"Son of a human being" or "Son of humanity." God calls Ezekiel this to emphasize that Ezekiel is only a human being. God is eternal and powerful, but humans are not. See how you translated this in [Ezekiel 2:1](../02/01.md). AT: "Mortal person" or "Human"

# As I live

"As surely as I am alive." Yahweh uses this expression to show that what he says next is certainly true. This is a way of making a solemn promise. See how you translated this in [Ezekiel 5:11](../05/11.md). AT: "I solemnly swear" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-idiom]])

# Have you come to inquire of me?

Yahweh asks this rhetorical question to emphasize that the elders should not be inquiring of him. AT: "You should not come to inquire of me." (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-rquestion]])

# I will not be inquired of by you

This can be stated in active form. AT: "I will not allow you to inquire of me" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-activepassive]])

# this is the Lord Yahweh's declaration

Yahweh speaks of himself by name to express the certainty of what he is declaring. See how you translated this in [Ezekiel 5:11](../05/11.md). AT: "this is what the Lord Yahweh has declared" or "this is what I, the Lord Yahweh, have declared" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-123person]])