# General Information:

Yahweh continues giving Ezekiel his message to the elders of Israel.

# they rebelled against me

The word "they" refers to "the descendants of the house of Jacob."

# were unwilling to listen to me

"would not obey me"

# the detestable things from before his eyes

Yahweh speaks of the people worshiping the detestable things as if they had placed those idols in front of their eyes. AT: "the detestable things that he worshiped" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metaphor]])

# to pour out my fury upon them

Yahweh speaks of expressing his fury by punishing them as if his fury were a liquid that he poured out on them. AT: "to act against them in my fury" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metaphor]])

# for my name's sake

Here the word "name" represents Yahweh's reputation. AT: "for the sake of my reputation" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metonymy]])

# so it would not be profaned in the eyes of the nations

This can be stated in active form. AT: "so that the people would not profane it in the eyes of the nations" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-activepassive]])

# in the eyes

The eyes represent seeing, and seeing represents thoughts or judgment. AT: "in the opinion" or "in the judgment" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metaphor]])

# the nations

The word "nations" is a metonym for the people who live in the nations. AT: "the people who live in other nations" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metonymy]])

# they were staying

"they were living"

# I made myself known to them, in their eyes

Here the word "them" refers to the nations. The idiom "in their eyes" refers to being in a position where people can see. AT: "I revealed myself to them, in their presence" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-idiom]])

# bringing them

"bringing the people of Israel"

# translationWords

* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/rebel]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/forsaken]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/wrath]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/name]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/profane]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/nation]]