# General Information:

Yahweh continues giving Ezekiel his message to the elders of Israel.

# They did not walk in my statutes

Yahweh speaks of obeying his statutes as if the statutes were a path along which a person walks. AT: "They did not obey my statutes" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metaphor]])

# I would pour out my fury upon them

Yahweh speaks of expressing his fury by punishing them as if his fury were a liquid that he poured out on them. See how you translated this in [Ezekiel 20:8](./08.md). AT: "I would act against them in my fury" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metaphor]])

# in order to end them

The euphemism "to end them" refers to killing them. AT: "in order to kill them" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-euphemism]])

# I acted for my name's sake

Here the word "name" represents Yahweh's reputation. See how you translated this in [Ezekiel 20:9](./08.md). AT: "I acted for the sake of my reputation" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metonymy]])

# so it would not be profaned in the eyes of the nations

This can be stated in active form. See how you translated this in [Ezekiel 20:9](./08.md). AT: "so that the people would not profane it in the eyes of the nations" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-activepassive]])

# in the eyes of the nations

Here the "nations" refer to the people who live in those places. The eyes represent seeing, and seeing represents thoughts or judgment. See how you translated this in [Ezekiel 20:9](./08.md). AT: "in the thoughts of the people in other nations" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metonymy]] and [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metaphor]])

# in whose sight I had brought them out of Egypt

"in whose presence I brought my people out of Egypt"