# General Information:

Yahweh continues giving Ezekiel his message to the elders of Israel.

# I myself also raised my hand to swear an oath

Here "raised my hand" is a symbolic action that shows he will truly do what he has sworn to do. See how you translated this in [Ezekiel 20:5](./04.md). AT: "I myself also solemnly swore an oath" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/translate-symaction]])

# to them

"to the house of Israel"

# a land flowing with milk and honey

"a land where plenty of milk and honey flowed." Yahweh speaks of the land being good for animals and plants as if the milk and honey from those animals and plants were flowing through the land. See how you translated this in [Ezekiel 20:6](./04.md). AT: "a land that was excellent for raising livestock and growing crops" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metaphor]] and [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metonymy]])

# the most beautiful ornament among all the lands

The lands in which people live are spoken of as if they are jewelry or other things that are pleasant to look at. See how you translated this in [Ezekiel 20:6](./04.md). AT: "the most beautiful of all lands" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metaphor]])

# did not walk in my statutes

Yahweh speaks of obeying his statutes as if they were a path along which a person walks. AT: "did not obey my statutes" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metaphor]])

# their hearts walked after their idols

Here the word "heart" represents the person's thoughts and emotions. Yahweh speaks of being dedicated to idols as if a person's heart walked after them. AT: "they were dedicated to worshiping their idols" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metonymy]] and [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metaphor]])

# my eye spared them

Here the word "eye" represents Yahweh. AT: "I spared them" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-synecdoche]])

# translationWords

* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/oath]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/heart]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/falsegod]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/compassion]]