# General Information:

Yahweh continues giving Ezekiel his message to the elders of Israel.

# They did not walk in my statutes

Yahweh speaks of a person obeying his statutes as if the statutes were a path along which the person walks. AT: "They did not obey my statutes" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metaphor]])

# to pour out my fury upon them

Yahweh speaks of expressing his fury by punishing them as if his fury were a liquid that he poured out on them. See how you translated this in [Ezekiel 20:8](./08.md). AT: "to act against them in my fury" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metaphor]])

# I turned my hand away

Here the word "hand" represents Yahweh and turning his hand away means that he does not do what he was going to do. AT: "But I did not do that" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-synecdoche]] and [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-idiom]])

# for my name's sake

Here the word "name" represents Yahweh's reputation. AT: "for the sake of my reputation" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metonymy]])

# so it would not be profaned in the eyes of the nations

This can be stated in active form. See how you translated this in [Ezekiel 20:9](./08.md). AT: "so that the people would not profane it in the eyes of the nations" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-activepassive]])

# in the eyes of the nations

Here the "nations" refer to the people who live in those places. The eyes represent seeing, and seeing represents thoughts or judgment. AT: "in the thoughts of the people in other nations" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metonymy]] and [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metaphor]])

# translationWords

* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/rebel]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/wrath]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/hand]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/name]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/nation]]