# General Information:

Yahweh continues giving Ezekiel his message to the house of Israel.

# Why do you make yourselves unclean with the ways of your fathers?

Yahweh asks this question to rebuke the people. AT: "You should not make yourselves unclean by doing the things that your fathers did." (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-rquestion]])

# Why do you make yourselves unclean

A person who is not acceptable for God's purposes is spoken of as if the person were physically unclean. (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metaphor]])

# So why do you act like prostitutes, searching for disgusting things?

Yahweh asks this question to rebuke the people. AT: "You should not act like prostitutes, searching for disgusting things." (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-rquestion]])

# why do you act like prostitutes

Yahweh speaks of the people being unfaithful to him as if they were acting like women who sleep with men to whom they are not married. (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-simile]])

# you cause your sons to pass through the fire

"you put your sons into the fire." It is implicit that they put their sons into the fire in order to offer them as burnt offerings. This phrase explains how they were offering their gifts. AT: "when you sacrificed your sons as burnt offerings" or "by causing your sons to pass through the fire" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-explicit]])

# So why should I let you seek me, house of Israel?

Yahweh asks this question to rebuke the people. AT: "I will not let you come close to me, house of Israel." (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-rquestion]])

# As I live

Yahweh uses this expression to show that what he says next is certainly true. This is a way of making a solemn promise. AT: "I solemnly swear" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-idiom]])

# translationWords

* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/unclean]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/prostitute]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/gift]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/fire]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/idol]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/inquire]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/mind]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/nation]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/clan]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/worship]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/stone]]