# you did not rescue me

The word "you" is plural and refers to the men of Ephraim. Jephthah is referring to the people of Gilead, including himself, when he says "me." AT: "you did not rescue us" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-you]] and [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-synecdoche]])

# I put my life in my own hand

This is an idiom which means to risk one's life and to rely only on one's own strength. Jephthah continues to refer to the people of Gilead as himself. AT: "We risked our lives, relying on our own strength" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-idiom]] and [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-synecdoche]])

# Yahweh gave me victory

Jephthah is referring to Yahweh giving the men of Gilead victory over the Ammonites. The full meaning of this statement can be made clear. AT: "Yahweh gave us victory over them" or "Yahweh allowed us to defeat them in battle" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-explicit]])

# he fought against Ephraim

The word "he" refers to Jephthah and all the fighting men of Gilead. AT: "they fought against Ephraim" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-synecdoche]])

# Why have you come to fight against me

The word "you" is plural and refers to the men of Ephraim. Jephthah is referring to the people of Gilead, including himself, when he says "me." AT: "Why have you come to fight against us" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-you]] and [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-synecdoche]])

# You Gileadites are fugitives

You can make the meaning of this insult explicit. AT: "You Gileadites do not really belong here. You are just people who came here to live" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-explicit]])

# passed through against the people of Ammon

This means that they fought against the Ammonites as they passed through Ammon. The full meaning of this statement can be made clear. AT: "fought against the people of Ammon as we passed through their region" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-explicit]])

# Gileadites

people from Gilead

# in Ephraim—in Ephraim and Manasseh

"in the regions of Ephraim and Manasseh" or "in the land of Ephraim and Manasseh." Here "Ephraim" and "Manasseh" refer to regions and are named after the tribes which live there.

# translationWords

* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/life]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/strength]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/yahweh]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/names/gilead]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/names/manasseh]]