# General Information:

Jesus is talking to a group of people about what they as individuals should or should not do. The instances of "you" and "your" are all singular, but in some languages they may need to be plural.

# Why do you look ... brother's eye, but you do not notice the log that is in your own eye?

Jesus uses this question to rebuke the people for paying attention to other people's sins and ignoring their own. AT: "You look ... brother's eye, but you do not notice the log that is in your own eye." or "Do not look ... brother's eye and ignore the log that is in your own eye." (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-rquestion]])

# the tiny piece of straw that is in your brother's eye

This is a metaphor that refers to the less important faults of a fellow believer. (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metaphor]])

# tiny piece of straw

"speck" or "splinter" or "bit of dust." Use a word for the smallest thing that commonly falls into a person's eyes.

# brother

All occurrences of "brother" in 7:3-5 refer to a fellow believer, not to a literal brother or a neighbor.

# the log that is in your own eye

This is a metaphor for a person's most important faults. A log could not literally go into a person's eye. Jesus is exaggerating to emphasize that a person should pay attention to his own more important faults before he deals with another person's less important faults. (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metaphor]] and [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-hyperbole]])

# log

the largest part of a tree that someone has cut down

# How can you say ... your own eye?

Jesus asks this question to challenge the people to pay attention to their own sins before they pay attention to another person's sins. AT: "You should not say ... your own eye." (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-rquestion]])

# translationWords

* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/brother]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/hypocrite]]