# General Information:

Jesus is talking to a group of people about what might happen to them as individuals. The instances of "you" and "your" are all plural. (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-you]])

# Ask ... Seek ... Knock

These are metaphors for praying to God. The verb form shows that we are to keep praying until he answers. If your language has a form for continuing to do something over and over, use it here. (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metaphor]])

# Ask

This means to request things from God.

# it will be given to you

This can be stated in active form. AT: "God will give you what you need" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-activepassive]])

# Seek

"Seek from God what you need"

# Knock

To knock on a door was a polite way to request that the person inside the house or room open the door. If knocking on a door is impolite or not done in your culture, use the word that describes how people politely ask for doors to be opened. AT: "Tell God you want him to open the door"

# it will be opened to you

This can be stated in active form. AT: "God will open it for you" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-activepassive]])

# Or which one of you ... a stone?

Jesus uses a question to teach the people. AT: "There is not one person among you ... a stone." (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-rquestion]])

# a loaf of bread

This refers to food in general. AT: "some food" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-synecdoche]])

# stone ... fish ... snake

These nouns should be translated literally.

# Or if he asks for a fish, will give him a snake?

Jesus asks another question to teach the people. It is understood that Jesus is still referring to a man and his son. AT: "And there is not one person among you, if his son asks for a fish, will give him a snake." (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-rquestion]] and [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-ellipsis]])

# translationWords

* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/son]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/bread]]