## translationWords

* [[en:tw:gate]]
* [[en:tw:life]]

## translationNotes

* Jesus continues to teach his disciples. This event began in [[:en:bible:notes:mat:05:01]].
* Jesus is talking to a group of people about what might happen to them as individuals. The instances of “you” and “your” are plural.
* When you translate, use appropriate words for "wide" and "broad" that are as different from "narrow" as possible to emphasize the differences between the two sets of gates and ways.
* **Enter through the narrow gate** - You may need to move this to the end of verse 14: "Therefore, enter through the narrow gate."
* **gate … way** - This metaphor is most likely of people walking the "way," reaching the "gate," and then entering "life" or "destruction" (see UDB, [[en:ta:vol1:translate:figs_metaphor]]). So you may need to translate "broad is the way that leads to destruction and wide is the gate by which people enter it." Others understand the gate and way as hendiadys, which would not need to be reordered. (See: [[en:ta:vol2:translate:figs_hendiadys]])
* **wide is the gate and broad is the way … narrow is the gate, and narrow is the way** - The ULB puts the adjectives before the verbs to emphasize the contrast between the adjectives. Structure your translation the way your language usually contasts adjectives.
* **destruction** - This is a general term for people being destroyed. In context it refers literally to physical death (see UDB), which is a metaphor for eternal death. This is the opposite of physical "life," which is a metaphor for eternal life. (See: [[en:ta:vol1:translate:figs_metaphor]])
