# will enter into the kingdom of heaven

Here "kingdom of heaven" refers to God's rule as king. The phrase "kingdom of heaven" is used only in the book of Matthew. If possible, keep "heaven" in your translation. AT: "will live with God in heaven when he shows himself to be king" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metonymy]])

# those who do the will of my Father who is in heaven

"whoever does what my Father in heaven desires"

# Father

This is an important title for God. (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/guidelines-sonofgodprinciples]])

# in that day

Jesus said "that day" knowing his hearers would understand he was referring to the day of judgment. You should include "the day of judgment" only if your readers would not understand otherwise. (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-explicit]])

# did we not prophesy ... drive out demons ... do many mighty deeds?

The people use a question to emphasize that they did these things. AT: "we prophesied ... we drove out demons ... we did many mighty deeds." (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-rquestion]])

# we

This "we" does not include Jesus. (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-exclusive]])

# in your name

Here "name" means with the power and authority of Jesus. (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metonymy]])

# mighty deeds

"miracles"

# I never knew you

This means the person does not belong to Jesus. AT: "You are not my follower" or "I have nothing to do with you" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-idiom]])

# translationWords

* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/lord]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/kingdomofgod]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/willofgod]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/godthefather]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/heaven]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/prophet]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/name]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/castout]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/demon]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/works]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/declare]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/evildoer]]