# May his ancestors' sins be mentioned to Yahweh

This can be stated in active form. AT: "May you remember the sins of his ancestors, Yahweh" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-activepassive]])

# may the sin of his mother not be forgotten

This can be stated in active form. AT: "May you not forget the sins that his mother committed" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-activepassive]])

# May their guilt always be before Yahweh

Here David speaks about Yahweh thinking about their guilt as if their guilt is something physically present before him. AT: "May Yahweh continually think about their sins" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metaphor]])

# may Yahweh cut off their memory from the earth

David uses the word "earth" to refer to all the people that live on the earth. Also, the phrase "their memory" refers to people remembering them after they have died. AT: "may Yahweh make it so that no one on earth remembers them" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metonymy]])

# this man never bothered to show any covenant faithfulness

This refers to him showing covenant faithfulness to people. The abstract noun "faithfulness" can be translated with an adjective. AT: "this man never bothered to show any covenant faithfulness to people" or "this man never did anything to show that he was faithful to his covenant" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-explicit]] and [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-abstractnouns]])

# the oppressed, the needy

This refers to oppressed and needy people. AT: "oppressed people, needy people" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-nominaladj]])

# the disheartened

This refers to people who are disheartened. AT: "disheartened people" or "people who have lost hope" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-nominaladj]])

# to death

"until they died." This means that he harassed them until they died.

# translationWords

* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/sin]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/yahweh]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/guilt]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/cutoff]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/earth]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/oppress]]