# General Information:

Jeremiah speaks to Yahweh.

# Yahweh, you deceived me, and I was deceived

Some modern versions interpret these Hebrew expressions as "Yahweh, you persuaded me, and I was indeed persuaded."

# I was deceived

This can be stated in active form. AT: "you deceived me" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-activepassive]])

# I have become a laughingstock all day long; everyone mocks me

These two phrases mean basically the same thing and emphasize the way others mock him. (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-parallelism]])

# laughingstock

This is a person whom others laugh at and make fun of.

# called out and proclaimed

These two phrases mean basically the same thing and emphasize that he proclaimed Yahweh's message boldly. AT: "openly proclaimed" or "proclaimed loudly" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-doublet]])

# Yahweh's word has become for me reproach and mocking every day

Here "word" refers to the message of Yahweh. The words "reproach" and "mocking" can be translated with verbal phrases. AT: "people reproach and mock me every day because I proclaim Yahweh's message" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metonymy]] and [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-abstractnouns]])

# for me reproach and mocking

The words "reproach" and "mocking" mean basically the same thing and emphasize that people have ridiculed Jeremiah for proclaiming Yahweh's message. AT: "a reason for people to ridicule me" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-doublet]])

# I will not speak any longer in his name

Possible meanings are 1) "I will never mention Yahweh or say anything about him" or 2) the word "name" represents authority. AT: "I will no longer speak as his messenger" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metonymy]])

# it is like a fire in my heart, held within my bones

Here the words "heart" and "bones" represent Jeremiah's innermost being. Jeremiah speaks of being unable to not speak Yahweh's message as if Yahweh's message were a fire that burns within him. AT: "Yahweh's word is like a fire that burns deep within me" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-synecdoche]] and [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metaphor]])

# translationWords

* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/mock]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/proclaim]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/wordofgod]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/reproach]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/name]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/fire]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/heart]]