# Tell the righteous person that it will be well

"Tell the one who is doing what is right that I will make things good for him"

# the righteous person

This refers to righteous people in general. AT: "righteous people" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-genericnoun]])

# for they will eat the fruit of their deeds

Deeds are spoken of as if they were trees giving fruit that can be eaten. The fruit stands for the reward for doing good deeds. AT: "for they will receive their reward for their good deeds" or "for they will receive their reward for the good things they have done" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metaphor]])

# they will eat the fruit of their deeds

The Hebrew text has these plural pronouns here, but they refer to any righteous person. Translators can choose to translate them as singular: "he will eat the fruit of his deeds."

# for the recompense of his hands will be done to him

Here "hands" stands for the deeds that the person has done. AT: "for what the wicked person has done to others will be done to him" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metonymy]])

# My people ... My people

Possible meanings are 1) Isaiah is talking and "My" refers to Isaiah, or 2) Yahweh is talking and "My" refers to Yahweh.

# children are their oppressors

Possible meanings are 1) "young people have become their leaders and they oppress the people" or 2) "their leaders are immature like children and oppress the people." (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metaphor]])

# women rule over them

Possible meanings are 1) "women rule over the people" or 2) "their leaders are weak like women."

# those who guide you lead you astray and confuse the direction of your path

It was common in the Ancient Middle East to speak of a nation's leaders as if they were shepherds. As shepherds lead the sheep along good paths to safety, leaders should teach the people the truth and help them do what is right. Judah's leaders were not doing this. AT: "your leaders are like bad shepherds who lead you away from good paths and do not show you where to go" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metaphor]])

# translationWords

* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/righteous]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/fruit]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/woe]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/evil]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/hand]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/receive]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/peopleofgod]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/astray]]