# Yahweh stands up for an accusation; he is standing to accuse the people

Isaiah speaks of Yahweh's decision to harm the people as if Yahweh were bringing a legal accusation in a courtroom against the people of Israel. The second part of this line means the same thing as the first part, but it says it a little more completely. AT: "It is as though Yahweh had taken his place in a courtroom and were ready to accuse the people" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metaphor]] and [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-parallelism]])

# will come with judgment

Judgment is spoken of as if it were an object that one could bring to another person. AT: "will announce his judgment" or "will declare his judgment" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metaphor]])

# You have ruined the vineyard

Here "you" refers to the elders and rulers. Yahweh is speaking of his people as if they were a vineyard. Like someone who fails to care for a vineyard so that the vines give no more grapes, the elders and leaders are discouraging the Israelites from serving God. AT: "My people are like a vineyard, and you have ruined it" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-you]] and [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metaphor]])

# the plunder from the poor is in your houses

"the things you have taken from the poor are in your houses"

# the poor

This nominal adjective can be stated as an adjective. AT: "those who are poor" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-nominaladj]])

# Why do you crush my people and grind the faces of the poor?

Yahweh asks this question in order to accuse the leaders of the people. This accusation can be expressed as a statement. AT: "I am angry with you evil men because you are crushing my people and grinding the faces of the poor!" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-rquestion]])

# crush my people

Making people suffer is spoken of as if it were crushing them with a very heavy weight. AT: "cruelly harm my people" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metaphor]])

# grind the faces of the poor

Making people suffer is spoken of as if it were rubbing their faces into the ground. AT: "harm the poor and make them suffer" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metaphor]])

# This is the declaration of the Lord Yahweh of hosts

Yahweh speaks of himself by name to express the certainty of what he is declaring. AT: "this is what the Lord Yahweh of hosts has declared" or "this is what I, the Lord Yahweh of hosts, have declared" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-123person]])

# translationWords

* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/yahweh]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/judge]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/elder]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/vineyard]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/lordgod]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/yahwehofhosts]]