# General Information:

Parallelism is common in Hebrew poetry. (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/writing-poetry]] and [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-parallelism]])

# General Information:

This psalm is a song that teaches people.

# A psalm of Asaph

"This is a psalm that Asaph wrote."

# The Mighty One, God, Yahweh

The author uses three different names to speak of God.

# called the earth

Here the word "earth" refers to the people who live on the earth. AT: "called all people" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metonymy]])

# from the rising of the sun to its setting

This phrase refers to the directions east, where the sun rises, and west, where the sun sets. The writer uses these two extremes to represent everywhere on earth. AT: "everywhere on earth" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-merism]])

# Zion, the perfection of beauty

Possible meanings are 1) "Zion, whose beauty is perfect" or 2) "Zion, the most beautiful city."

# God has shone

The writer speaks of God as if he were a light that shines. This refers to God causing people to know about his glory. AT: "God's glory shines like a light" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metaphor]])

# translationWords

* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/psalm]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/asaph]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/mighty]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/god]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/yahweh]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/call]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/earth]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/zion]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/perfect]]