# General Information:

It may be helpful to reorder the events in these verses as in the UDB. (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-events]])

# spoke to all Israel, to the commanders ... heads of the fathers' house

Here "all of Israel" means those people mentioned afterwards. They represent all of Israel. AT: "spoke to the commanders ... heads of the father's house"

# the commanders of thousands and of hundreds

Possible meanings are 1) these numbers represent the exact amount of soldiers that these commanders led. AT: "the commanders of 1,000 soldiers and the commanders of 100 soldiers" or 2) the words translated as "thousands" and "hundreds" do not represent exact numbers, but are the names of larger and smaller military divisions. AT: "the commanders of large military divisions and the commanders of smaller military divisions" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/translate-numbers]])

# to every prince in all Israel, the heads of the fathers' houses

Here "the heads of the fathers' houses" further describe the princes. AT: "to every prince in all Israel, that is, the heads of the fathers' houses"

# to every prince

Here "prince" means leaders in general. They are not necessarily the sons of the king. AT: "to every leader"

# the heads of the fathers' houses

Here "heads" is a metaphor for the most important part. And "houses" represents families. AT: "the leaders of the families in Israel" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metaphor]] and [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metonymy]])

# Kiriath Jearim

A little town about 9 miles west of Jerusalem. (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/translate-names]])

# pitched a tent

"set up a tent"

# the bronze altar made by Bezalel son of Uri son of Hur

This can be stated in active form. AT: "the bronze altar that Bezalel son of Uri son Hur made" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-activepassive]])

# Bezalel son of Uri son of Hur

These are names of men. (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/translate-names]])

# translationWords

* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/israel]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/command]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/judgeposition]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/prince]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/head]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/father]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/house]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/highplaces]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/names/gibeon]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/tentofmeeting]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/god]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/names/moses]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/servant]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/desert]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/arkofthecovenant]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/names/jerusalem]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/bronze]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/altar]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/tabernacle]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/assembly]]