# General Information:

This is the beginning of a new part of the story where the writer tells of the ministry of John the Baptist. In verse 3, the writer quotes the prophet Isaiah to show that John the Baptist was God's appointed messenger to prepare for Jesus' ministry.

# In those days

This is many years after Joseph and his family left Egypt and went to Nazareth. This is probably near the time that Jesus begins his ministry. AT: "Some time later" or "Some years later"

# Repent

This is plural in form. John is speaking to the crowds. (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-you]])

# the kingdom of heaven is near

The phrase "kingdom of heaven" refers to God ruling as king. This phrase is only in the book of Matthew. If possible, use the word "heaven" in your translation. AT: "our God in heaven will soon show himself to be king" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metonymy]])

# For this is he who was spoken of by Isaiah the prophet, saying

This can be stated in active form. AT: "For Isaiah the prophet was speaking of John the Baptist when he said" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-activepassive]])

# The voice of one calling out in the wilderness

This can be expressed as a sentence. AT: "The voice of one calling out in the wilderness is heard" or "They hear the sound of someone calling out in the wilderness"

# Make ready the way of the Lord ... make his paths straight

These two phrases mean the same thing. (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-parallelism]])

# Make ready the way of the Lord

"Get the road ready for the Lord." Doing this represents being prepared to hear the Lord's message when he comes. People do this by repenting of their sins. AT: "Prepare to hear the Lord's message when he comes" or "Repent and be ready for the Lord to come" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metaphor]] and [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-explicit]])

# translationWords

* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/johnthebaptist]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/preach]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/desert]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/judea]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/repent]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/kingdomofgod]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/isaiah]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/prophet]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/voice]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/lordgod]]