# Connecting Statement:

John the Baptist continues to rebuke the Pharisees and Sadducees.

# Already the ax has been placed against the root of the trees. So every tree that does not produce good fruit is chopped down and thrown into the fire

This metaphor means God is ready to punish sinners. This can be stated in active form. AT: "God has his axe and he is ready to cut down and burn any tree that grows bad fruit" or "As a person gets his axe ready to cut down and burn a tree that grows bad fruit, God is ready to punish you for your sins" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metaphor]] and [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-activepassive]])

# for repentance

"to show that you have repented"

# But he who comes after me

Jesus is the person who comes after John.

# is mightier than I

"is more important than I am"

# He will baptize you with the Holy Spirit and with fire

This metaphor compares John's baptism with water to the future baptism with fire. This means John's baptism only symbolically cleanses people of their sins. The baptism by Holy Spirit and fire will truly cleanse people of their sins. If possible, use the word "baptize" in your translation to keep the comparison to John's baptism. (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metaphor]])

# His winnowing fork is in his hand to thoroughly clear off his threshing floor

This metaphor compares the way Christ will separate the righteous people from the unrighteous people to the way a man separates wheat grain from chaff. AT: "Christ is like a man whose winnowing fork is in his hand" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metaphor]])

# His winnowing fork is in his hand

Here "in his hand" means the person is ready to act. AT: "Christ is holding a winnowing fork because he is ready" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-idiom]])

# winnowing fork

This is a tool for tossing wheat up into the air to separate the wheat grain from the chaff. The heavier grain falls back down and the unwanted chaff is blown away by the wind. It is similar in shape to a pitchfork but with wide tines made of wood. (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/translate-unknown]])

# to thoroughly clear off his threshing floor

Christ is like a man with a winnowing fork who is ready to clear off his threshing floor.

# his threshing floor

"his ground" or "the ground where he separates the grain from the chaff"

# gather his wheat into the storehouse ... burn up the chaff with fire that can never be put

This is a metaphor showing how God will separate righteous people from evil people. The righteous will go to heaven like wheat into a farmer's storehouse, and God will burn the people who are like chaff with a fire that will never be put out. (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metaphor]])

# can never be put out

This can be stated in active form. AT: "will never burn out" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-activepassive]])

# translationWords

* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/ax]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/fruit]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/fire]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/baptize]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/repent]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/worthy]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/sandal]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/holyspirit]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/winnow]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/thresh]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/wheat]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/storehouse]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/chaff]]