# His winnowing fork is in his hand to thoroughly clear off his threshing floor

This metaphor compares the way Christ will separate the righteous people from the unrighteous people to the way a man separates wheat grain from chaff. Alternate translation: "Christ is like a man whose winnowing fork is in his hand" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metaphor]])

# His winnowing fork is in his hand

Here "in his hand" means the person is ready to act. Alternate translation: "Christ is holding a winnowing fork because he is ready" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-idiom]])

# winnowing fork

This is a tool for tossing wheat up into the air to separate the wheat grain from the chaff. The heavier grain falls back down and the unwanted chaff is blown away by the wind. It is similar in shape to a pitchfork but with wide tines made of wood. (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/translate-unknown]])

# to thoroughly clear off his threshing floor

Christ is like a man with a winnowing fork who is ready to clear off his threshing floor.

# his threshing floor

"his ground" or "the ground where he separates the grain from the chaff"

# gather his wheat into the storehouse ... burn up the chaff with fire that can never be put

This is a metaphor showing how God will separate righteous people from evil people. The righteous will go to heaven like wheat into a farmer's storehouse, and God will burn the people who are like chaff with a fire that will never be put out. (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metaphor]])

# can never be put out

This can be stated in active form. Alternate translation: "will never burn out" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-activepassive]])

