# Connecting Statement:

This is the end of the part of the story about John the Baptist. It describes what happened after he baptized Jesus.

# After he was baptized

This can be stated in active form. AT: "After John baptized Jesus" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-activepassive]])

# behold

The word "behold" here alerts us to pay attention to the surprising information that follows.

# the heavens were opened to him

This can be stated in active form. AT: "Jesus saw the sky open" or "God opened the heavens to Jesus" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-activepassive]])

# coming down like a dove

Possible meanings are 1) this is simply a statement that the Spirit was in the form of a dove or 2) this is a simile that compares the Spirit coming down upon Jesus gently, the way a dove would. (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-simile]])

# a voice came out of the heavens saying

"Jesus heard a voice from heaven." Here "voice" refers to God speaking. AT: "God spoke from heaven" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metonymy]])

# Son

This is an important title for Jesus that describes his relationship to God. (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/guidelines-sonofgodprinciples]])

# translationWords

* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/baptize]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/jesus]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/heaven]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/holyspirit]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/dove]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/voice]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/beloved]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/sonofgod]]