# Connecting Statement:

Jesus gives the Pharisees an example from scripture to show why the disciples were not wrong to pick grain on the Sabbath.

# pick heads of grain ... doing something that is not lawful on the Sabbath day

Plucking grain in others' fields and eating it was not considered stealing. The question was whether it was lawful to do this on the Sabbath.

# pick heads of grain

The disciples picked the heads of grain to eat them. This can be worded to show the full meaning. AT: "pick and eat heads of grain" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-explicit]])

# heads of grain

This is the topmost part of the wheat plant, which is a kind of tall grass. It holds the mature grain or seeds of the plant.

# Look, why are they doing something that is not lawful on the Sabbath day?

The Pharisees ask Jesus a question to condemn him. This can be translated as a statement. AT: "Look! They are breaking the Jewish law concerning the Sabbath." (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-rquestion]])

# Look

"Look at this" or "Listen." This is a word used to get the attention of someone to show them something. If there is a word in your language that is used to draw a person's attention to something, you could use that here.

# translationWords

* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/sabbath]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/jesus]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/grain]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/disciple]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/pharisee]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/lawofmoses]]