# He said to them

"Jesus said to the Pharisees"

# Have you never read what David ... those who were with him?

Jesus asks this question to remind the scribes and Pharisees of something David did on the Sabbath. The question is very long, so it can be divided into two sentences. (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-rquestion]])

# Have you never read what David did when he was in need and hungry—he and the men who were with him—how he

This can be stated as a command. AT: "Remember what you read about what David did when he and the men who were with him were in need and hungry, how he" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-rquestion]])

# read what David

Jesus refers to reading about David in the Old Testament. This can be translated showing the implicit information. AT: "read in the scriptures what David" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-explicit]])

# how he went into the house of God ... to those who were with him?

This can be expressed as a statement separate from verse 25. AT: "He went into the house of God ... to those who were with him." (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-rquestion]])

# how he went

The word "he" refers to David.

# bread of the presence

This refers to the twelve loaves of bread that were placed on a golden table in the tabernacle or temple building as a sacrifice to God during Old Testament times.

# translationWords

* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/david]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/houseofgod]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/abiathar]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/highpriest]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/bread]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/unlawful]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/priest]]