# When anyone makes a vow to Yahweh, or swears an oath

These two sentences have similar meanings and are combined to emphasize making a vow or promise. (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-parallelism]])

# to bind himself with a promise

Here Moses speaks of a person promising to do something as if his promise were a physical object that he ties to himself. AT: "committing to fulfill a promise" or "promising to do something" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metaphor]])

# he must not break his word. He must keep his promise to do everything that comes out of his mouth

These two sentences have similar meanings and are combined to emphasize that he must fulfill his promises. Here "word" is a metonym that refers to what he said. (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-parallelism]])

# he must not break his word

The phrase "his word" refers to a man's oaths and vows. Here Moses speaks of not fulfilling these as if they were physical objects that the man could break. AT: "he must fulfill his promises" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metaphor]] and [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metonymy]])

# everything that comes out of his mouth

Here the word "mouth" is a metonym for the things that the man says. AT: "to do everything that he says he will do" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metonymy]])

# translationWords

* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/moses]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/tribe]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/peoplegroup]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/israel]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/yahweh]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/command]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/vow]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/oath]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/bond]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/promise]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/word]]