# General Information:

Moses continues telling the leaders of the tribes what Yahweh has commanded.

# a divorced woman

This can be stated in active form. AT: "a woman who has been divorced by a man" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-activepassive]])

# by which she has bound herself

Here Moses speaks of how a woman has committed herself to fulfilling a promise as if her promise were a physical object that she had bound to her body. AT: "which she has committed herself to fulfill" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metaphor]])

# will remain in force against her

This is an idiom. It means that her vows will remain in effect and she will be required to fulfill them. See how you translated a similar phrase in [Numbers 30:4](./03.md). AT: "she will be obligated to fulfill" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-idiom]])

# If a woman made a vow in her husband's house

This refers to a married woman. You can make the meaning of this statement clear. AT: "If a married woman makes a vow" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-explicit]])

# then all her vows must stand ... remain in force

This is an idiom. The phrase "remain in force" means that her vows will remain in effect and she will be required to fulfill them. See how you translated a similar phrase in [Numbers 30:4](./03.md). AT: "then she must fulfill all her vows ... she must fulfill" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-idiom]])

# all her vows must stand ... the obligations she made must remain in force

These two statements say basically the same thing twice for emphasis and can be combined. AT: "then all of her vows and promises with which she has made must remain in force" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-parallelism]])

# translationWords

* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/divorce]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/oath]]