# Connecting Statement:

Jesus begins to teach about how his disciples are like salt and light.

# You are the salt of the earth

Possible meanings are 1) just as salt makes food good, a disciple of Jesus must influence the people of the world so that they will be good. AT: "You are like salt for the people of the world" or 2) just as salt preserves food, a disciple of Jesus must keep people from becoming totally corrupt. AT: "As salt is for food, you are for the world" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metaphor]]).

# if the salt has lost its taste

Possible meanings are 1) "if the salt has lost its power to do things that salt does" or 2) "if the salt has lost its flavor." (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metaphor]])

# how can it be made salty again?

"how can it be made useful again?" Jesus uses a question to teach the disciples. AT: "there is no way for it to become useful again" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-rquestion]] and [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metaphor]])

# except to be thrown out and trampled under people's feet

This can be stated in active form. AT: "except for people to throw it out into the road and walk on it" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-activepassive]])

# You are the light of the world

This means Jesus' followers bring the message of God's truth to all the people who do not know God. AT: "You are like a light for the people of the world" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metaphor]])

# A city set on a hill cannot be hidden

At night when it is dark, people can see the city lights shining. This can be stated in active form. AT: "During the night, no one can hide the lights that shine from a city on a hill" or "Everyone sees the lights of a city on a hill" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-explicit]] and [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-activepassive]])