# Connecting Statement:

Jesus continues to teach about how he has come to fulfill the Old Testament law. Here he begins to speak about murder and anger.

# General Information:

Jesus is talking to a group of people about what they as individuals should and should not do. The "you" is plural in "you have heard" and "I say to you." The understood "you" is singular in "Do not kill," but in some languages it may need to be plural. (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-you]])

# it was said to them in ancient times

This can be expressed with an active verb. AT: "God said to those who lived long ago" or "Moses said to your ancestors long ago" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-activepassive]])

# Whoever kills will be in danger of the judgment

Here "the judgment" implies that a judge will condemn the person to die. AT: "A judge will condemn anyone who kills another person" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-explicit]])

# kill ... kills

This word refers to murder, not to all forms of killing.

# But I say

The "I" is emphatic. This indicates that what Jesus says is equally important to the original commands from God. Try to translate this phrase in a way that shows that emphasis.

# brother

This refers to a fellow believer, not to a literal brother or a neighbor.

# will be in danger of the judgment

It seems here Jesus is not referring to a human judge but rather to God condemning the person who is angry with his brother. (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-explicit]])

# worthless person ... fool

These are insults for people who cannot think correctly. "Worthless person" is close to "brainless," where "fool" adds the idea of disobedience to God.

# council

This was likely a local council, not the main Sanhedrin in Jerusalem.

# translationWords

* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/judge]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/brother]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/worthy]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/council]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/foolish]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/fire]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/hell]]