# Connecting Statement:

Jesus continues to teach about how he has come to fulfill the Old Testament law. Here he begins to speak about adultery and lust.

# General Information:

Jesus is talking to a group of people about what they as individuals should and should not do. The "you" is plural in "you have heard" and "I say to you." The understood "you" is singular in "Do not commit adultery," but in some languages it may need to be plural. (See: rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-you)

# that it was said

This can be stated in active form. AT: "that God said" or "that Moses said" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-activepassive]])

# commit

This word means to act out or do something.

# But I say

Jesus agrees with God and his word, but he does not agree with the way the religious leaders have applied God's word. The "I" is emphatic. This indicates that what Jesus says is equally important to the original commands from God. Try to translate this phrase in a way that shows that emphasis. See how you translated this in [Matthew 5:22](./21.md).

# everyone who looks on a woman to lust after her has already committed adultery with her in his heart

This metaphor indicates that a man who lusts after a woman is as guilty of adultery as a man who actually commits the act of adultery. (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metaphor]])

# to lust after her

"and lusts after her" or "and desires to sleep with her"

# in his heart

Here "heart" refers to a person's thoughts. AT: "in his mind" or "in his thoughts" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metonymy]])

# translationWords

* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/commit]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/adultery]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/lust]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/heart]]