## translationWords

* [[en:tw:hell]]
* [[en:tw:stumblingblock]]

## translationNotes

* Jesus continues to teach his disciples. This event began in [[:en:bible:notes:mat:05:01]].
* Jesus is talking to a group of people about what might happen to them as individuals. All instances of "you" and "your" are singular, but you may have to translate them as plurals.
* **right eye … right hand** - The most important eye or hand, as opposed to the left eye or hand. You may need to translate "right" as "best." or "only." (See: [[en:ta:vol2:translate:figs_metonymy]])
* **if your right eye causes you to stumble** - "if what you see causes you to stumble" or "if you want to sin because of what you see." "Stumble" is a metaphor for "sin." Jesus is using irony here, as people usually use their eyes to keep from stumbling over things. (See: [[en:ta:vol1:translate:figs_metaphor]], [[en:ta:vol1:translate:figs_irony]])
* **pluck it out** - "forcefully remove it" or "destroy it" (see UDB). If the right eye is not specifically mentioned, you may need to translate this "pluck your eyes out." If eyes have been mentioned, you may need to translate this "pluck them out" (see UDB). (See: [[en:ta:vol2:translate:figs_hyperbole]].)
* **throw it away from you** - "get rid of it"
* **one of your body parts should perish** - "you should lose one part of your body"
* **if your right hand causes** - This metonymy is used to connect the hand to the actions of the whole person. (See: [[en:ta:vol2:translate:figs_metonymy]])
