# Connecting Statement:

Jesus continues to teach about how he has come to fulfill the Old Testament law. Here he begins to speak about swearing oaths.

# General Information:

Jesus is talking to a group of people about what they as individuals should and should not do. The "you" is plural in "you have heard" and "I say to you." The "you" and "your" are singular in "Do not swear" and "carry out your oaths," but in some languages they may need to be plural. (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-you]])

# Again, you

"Also, you" or "Here is another example. You"

# it was said to those in ancient times

This can be expressed with an active verb. AT: "God said to those who lived long ago" or "Moses said to your ancestors long ago" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-activepassive]])

# Do not swear a false oath, but carry out your oaths to the Lord.

"Do not swear that you will do something and then not do it. Instead do whatever you have sworn to the Lord that you will do"

# But I say

Jesus agrees with God and his word, but he does not agree with the way the religious leaders had applied God's word. The "I" is emphatic. This indicates that what Jesus says is equally important to the original commands from God. Try to translate this phrase in a way that shows that emphasis. See how you translated this in [Matthew 5:22](./21.md).

# swear not at all ... city of the great King

Here Jesus means that when people make a promise or when they say that something is true, they must not swear by anything. Some people were teaching that if a person swears by God that he will do something, then he must do it, but if he swears by something else, such as by heaven or earth, then it is less offensive if he does not do what he swore to do. Jesus says that swearing by heaven or earth or Jerusalem is just as serious as swearing by God because those things all belong to God.

# swear not at all

"Do not swear at all" or "Do not swear by anything"

# it is the throne of God

Because God reigns from heaven, Jesus speaks of heaven as if it were a throne. AT: "it is from here that God rules" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metaphor]])

# it is the footstool for his feet

This metaphor means the earth also belongs to God. AT: "it is like a footstool where a king rests his feet" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metaphor]])

# for it is the city of the great King

"for it is the city that belongs to God, the great King"

# translationWords

* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/oath]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/throne]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/god]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/footstool]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/jerusalem]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/king]]