# Connecting Statement:

Jesus continues to teach about how he has come to fulfill the Old Testament law. Here he begins to speak about retaliating against an enemy.

# General Information:

Jesus is talking to a group of people about what they as individuals should and should not do. The "you" is plural in "you have heard" and "I say to you." The "you" in "whoever strikes you" and the understood "you" in "turn to him" are both singular, but in some languages they may need to be plural. (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-you]])

# that it was said

This can be stated in active form. See how you translated this in [Matthew 5:27](./27.md). AT: "that God God said" or "that Moses said" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-activepassive]])

# eye for an eye, and a tooth for a tooth

The law of Moses allowed a person to harm a person in the same way he had harmed him, but he could not harm him worse.

# But I say
Jesus agrees with God and his word, but he does not agree with the way the religious leaders have applied God's word. The "I" is emphatic. This indicates that what Jesus says is equally important to the original commands from God. Try to translate this phrase in a way that shows that emphasis. See how you translated this in [Matthew 5:22](./21.md).

# one who is evil

"an evil person" or "someone who harms you"

# strikes ... your right cheek

To strike the side of a man's face was an insult in Jesus' culture. As with the eye and the hand, the right cheek is the more important one, and striking that cheek was a terrible insult.

# strikes

"slaps." This means hitting someone with the back of an open hand.

# turn to him the other also

"let him hit your other cheek also"

# translationWords

* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/evil]]