# Connecting Statement:

Jesus finishes teaching about how he has come to fulfill the Old Testament law. This section began in [Matthew 5:17](./17.md).

# General Information:

Jesus is talking to a group of people about what they as individuals should and should not do. All instances of "you" and "your" are plural. (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-you]])

# For if you love those ... what reward do you get?
Jesus uses this question to teach the people that loving those who love them is not something special that God will reward them for. AT: "For if you love only those ... you will not get any reward." (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-rquestion]])

# Do not even the tax collectors do the same thing?
The Jewish people considered the tax collectors to be very sinful. Jesus uses this question to remind them that even the tax collectors love those who love them. (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-rquestion]])

# If you greet only your brothers, what do you do more than others?
Jesus uses this question to teach the people that greeting their brothers is not something special that God will reward them for. AT: "For if you greet only your brothers, you are not doing anything more than what others do." (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-rquestion]])
# greet

This is a general term for showing a desire for the well-being of the hearer.

# Do not even the Gentiles do the same thing?
The Jewish people considered the Gentiles to be very sinful. Jesus uses this question to remind them that even the Gentiles greet their own brothers. AT: "For even the Gentiles greet their own people." (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-rquestion]])

# Father

This is an important title for God. (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/guidelines-sonofgodprinciples]])

# translationWords

* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/love]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/reward]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/taxcollector]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/brother]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/gentile]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/perfect]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/heaven]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/godthefather]]