# David assembled all Israel together

Here the word "all" is a generalization. The phrase means that David assembled people from all over Israel, not that he assembled every person in Israel. AT: "David assembled people together from all Israel" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-hyperbole]])

# Lebo Hamath ... Kiriath Jearim ... Baalah

These are the names of places. "Baalah" is another name for Kiriath Jearim. (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/translate-names]])

# which belongs to Judah

"which is in Judah"

# to bring up from there the ark of God

It is implied that they are taking the ark to Jerusalem. AT: "to take to Jerusalem the ark of God" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-explicit]])

# to bring up from there

Jerusalem is higher than almost any other place in Israel, so it was normal for Israelites to speak of going up to Jerusalem and going down from it.

# which is called by Yahweh's name

This can be stated in active form. Possible meanings are 1) the idiom "called by ... name" refers to a person owning the thing. AT: "which belongs to Yahweh" or 2) the ark has Yahweh's name written on it. AT: "which bears Yahweh's name" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-idiom]])

# who sits enthroned over the cherubim

You may need to make explicit that the cherubim are those on the lid of the ark of the covenant. The biblical writers often spoke of the ark of the covenant as if it were Yahweh's footstool upon which he rested his feet as he sat on his throne in heaven above. AT: "who sits on his throne above the cherubim on the ark of the covenant" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-explicit]])