# General Information:

God gives Jeremiah a message about Babylon. See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/writing-poetry]] and [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-parallelism]]

# This is the word that Yahweh declared

This idiom is used to introduce a special message from God. AT: "This is the message that Yahweh gave" or "This is the message that Yahweh spoke" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-idiom]])

# by the hand of Jeremiah the prophet

The hand is a synecdoche for the person. See how you translated this in [Jeremiah 37:2](../37/01.md). AT: "through Jeremiah, who was a prophet" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-synecdoche]])

# cause them to listen ... cause them to listen

This phrase is repeated to emphasize the importance of the command. (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-parallelism]])

# Lift up a signal

"Put up a sign"

# Babylon is taken

"Babylon is conquered"

# Bel is made ashamed. Marduk is dismayed. Its idols are put to shame; its images are dismayed

These lines mean the same thing and emphasize that Yahweh has disgraced the gods of Babylon. (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-parallelism]] and [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-activepassive]])

# Bel ... Marduk

These are two names for the chief god of Babylon. (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/translate-names]])

# translationWords

* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/wordofgod]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/declare]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/babylon]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/chaldeans]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/hand]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/jeremiah]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/prophet]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/report]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/nation]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/shame]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/idol]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/image]]