# arise against it ... live in it

Here "it" refers to Babylon in both phrases.

# her land

The word "her" refers to Babylon.

# make her land a desolation

The abstract noun "desolation" can be translated as a verb. AT: "destroy her land" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-abstractnouns]])

# In those days and at that time

These phrases mean the same thing and emphasize the importance of that future time. See how you translated this in [Jeremiah 33:15](../33/14.md). (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-doublet]])

# this is Yahweh's declaration

Yahweh speaks of himself by name to express the certainty of what he is declaring. See how you translated this in [Jeremiah 1:8](../01/07.md). AT: "this is what Yahweh declares" or "this is what I, Yahweh, declare" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-123person]])

# seek Yahweh their God

Seeking Yahweh their God represents either 1) asking God for help or 2) thinking about God and obeying him. (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metaphor]])

# They will ask

The word "They" refers to the people of Israel or the people of Judah who are returning from Babylon to Jerusalem.

# join ourselves to Yahweh

This is figurative language used to explain a spiritual connection to Yahweh. (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-idiom]])

# that will not be forgotten

This states that the covenant will be obeyed forever. It can be stated in active form. AT: "that no one will forget" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-activepassive]])

# translationWords

* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/raise]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/desolate]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/beast]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/life]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/names/kingdomofisrael]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/names/kingdomofjudah]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/god]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/zion]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/eternity]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/covenant]]