# My people have been a lost flock

The people of Israel are spoken of as if they were a group of sheep that was lost. This can be stated as a simile. AT: "My people have been like a lost flock of sheep" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metaphor]] and [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-simile]])

# Their shepherds

The leaders of Israel are spoken of as if they were the shepherds of people. This can be stated as a simile. AT: "Their leaders were like shepherds who" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metaphor]] and [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-simile]])

# turned them around from hill to hill

"lead them around to many different places"

# devoured them

Attacking the people of Israel is spoken of as if a wild animal ate them. This can be stated as a simile. AT: "devoured them like a wild animal would eat its prey" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metaphor]] and [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-simile]])

# they sinned

The word "they" refers to the people of Israel.

# Yahweh, their true home

Here "home" represents a place of safety and provision. Yahweh is therefore spoken of as the one who gives protection and provision. AT: "Yahweh, the one who protects and provides for them" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metonymy]] and [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metaphor]])

# Yahweh, the hope of their ancestors

Yahweh is spoken of as the source of their trust. The abstract noun "hope" can be stated as an action. AT: "the one whom their ancestors confidently expected to help them" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metaphor]] and [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-abstractnouns]])

# translationWords

* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/peopleofgod]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/flock]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/shepherd]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/turn]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/devour]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/adversary]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/guilt]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/sin]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/true]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/hope]]