# General Information:

Yahweh is speaking to his people in captivity in Babylon.

# Leave from the midst of Babylon

This command is addressed to the people of Israel who were in exile in Babylon.

# be like male goats that leave

Male goats tend to be more independent than the rest of the flock. Possible meanings are 1) they should be the first to leave Babylon or 2) they should lead the rest of the Israelites away from Babylon. (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-simile]])

# For see

The word "see" alerts the reader to pay attention to what follows. AT: "Pay attention, because"

# set in motion

"stir up"

# Babylon will be captured from there

This can be stated in active form. AT: "These nations will capture Babylon" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-activepassive]])

# from there

Possible meanings are 1) "from the north" or 2) "from their battle positions."

# this is Yahweh's declaration

Yahweh speaks of himself by name to express the certainty of what he is declaring. See how you translated this in [Jeremiah 1:8](../01/07.md). AT: "this is what Yahweh declares" or "this is what I, Yahweh, declare" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-123person]])

# Their arrows are like a skilled warrior who does not return empty-handed

The effectiveness of the arrows of the attacking nations are spoken of as if they were soldiers that always accomplish their mission. The idiom "empty-handed" means "without success." AT: Each of their arrows are like skilled soldiers that always hit their target" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-simile]] and [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-idiom]])

# Chaldea will become plunder

"They will plunder Chaldea"

# translationWords

* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/names/chaldeans]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/goat]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/bowweapon]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/yahweh]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/declare]]