# General Information:

Yahweh is speaking to the people of Babylon.

# You rejoice, you celebrate

These terms mean the same thing and are used to emphasize how happy they were to conquer Israel. AT: "You people of Babylon rejoice, celebrate" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-doublet]] and [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-explicit]])

# You rejoice ... you jump ... you neigh ... bore you

Each instance of "You" or "you" is plural and refers to the people of Babylon. (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-pronouns]])

# you jump around like a calf stamping in its pasture

The joy of the people of Babylon is compared to a calf who runs around joyfully in a pasture. (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-simile]])

# stamping

the action a calf makes when kicking the ground

# you neigh like a powerful horse

The people of Babylon are compared to stallions that are making loud noises because they are excited. (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-simile]])

# So your mother will be greatly ashamed; the one who bore you will be embarrassed

These two phrases mean basically the same thing and emphasize the intensity of her embarrassment. The words "mother" and "the one who bore you" refer either to Babylonia or to the city of Babylon. (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-doublet]] and [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metaphor]])

# the least of nations

"the most unimportant nation"

# a wilderness, a dry land, and a desert

These words have basically the same meaning and emphasize the complete barrenness of the land. Possible meanings are 1) this is a metaphor for an uninhabited place or 2) this refers to Babylon literally becoming a barren wilderness. (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-doublet]] and [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metaphor]])

# a complete devastation

The abstract noun "devastation" can be stated as a verb. AT: "completely destroyed" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-abstractnouns]])

# shudder

shake violently due to fear

# hiss

make a sound like a snake that means great disapproval