# General Information:

Yahweh speaks to Jeremiah about Israel.

# Israel is a sheep scattered and driven away by lions

Yahweh speaks of Israel as if it were a sheep that was trying to escape from hungry lions. This metaphor can be stated as a simile and in active form. AT: "Israel is like a sheep that lions scattered and drove away" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metaphor]] and [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-simile]] and [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-activepassive]])

# Israel

This refers collectively to all the people of Israel. (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metonymy]])

# the king of Assyria

This refers to the army of the king of Assyria. (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metonymy]])

# devoured him

The destruction of Israel by Assyria is spoken of as if Israel were a sheep that Assyria ate. (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metaphor]])

# Nebuchadnezzar king of Babylon

This refers to the army of Nebuchadnezzar king of Babylon. (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metonymy]])

# broke his bones

The destruction of Israel by Nebuchadnezzar is spoken of if it were a sheep which had its bones crushed by a lion. AT: "destroyed Israel" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metaphor]])

# Yahweh of hosts ... says this

Jeremiah often uses these words to introduce an important message from Yahweh. See how you translated this in [Jeremiah 6:6](../06/06.md).

# See, I am about to

The word "See" means to pay special attention to what follows.

# his land

Here "land" is a metonym for the people who live in the land of Babylon. AT: "the Babylonian people" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metonymy]])

# translationWords

* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/israel]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/sheep]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/lion]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/king]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/assyria]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/devour]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/nebuchadnezzar]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/yahwehofhosts]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/god]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/punish]]