# General Information:

Yahweh continues speaking to Jeremiah about Israel.

# I will restore

The word "I" refers to Yahweh.

# Israel to his homeland ... he will be satisfied

This refers collectively to all the people of Israel. AT: "the people of Israel to their homeland ... they will be satisfied" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metonymy]])

# he will graze on Carmel and Bashan

Israel is spoken of as if they were sheep that eat grass. AT: "they will eat food that grows in Carmel and Bashan" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metaphor]])

# In those days and at that time

These two phrases mean the same thing and emphasize that future time. See how you translated this in as [Jeremiah 33:15](../33/14.md). (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-doublet]])

# iniquity will be looked for in Israel, but none will be found. I will inquire about the sins of Judah, but none will be found

These two lines mean basically the same thing. Together they emphasize that Yahweh will completely forgive the sins of the people of Israel. (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-parallelism]])

# iniquity will be looked for in Israel, but none will be found

This can be stated in active form. AT: "Yahweh will look for iniquity in the people of Israel, but will not find any" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-activepassive]])

# that I spare

They will escape the destruction of Babylon. This can be stated explicitly. AT: "that I allow to escape the destruction of Babylon" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-explicit]])

# translationWords

* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/restore]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/carmel]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/bashan]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/ephraim]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/gilead]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/iniquity]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/sin]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/forgive]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/remnant]]