# General Information:

Yahweh speaks to Jeremiah about the enemies of Babylon.

# Arise against the land

Yahweh is speaking to the enemies of Babylon. AT: "You enemies of Babylon, arise against the land" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-explicit]])

# Merathaim

This is another name for Babylon. This is a name that means "double rebellion." (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/translate-names]])

# Pekod

This is another name for the Chaldeans. This is a name that means "visitation." (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/translate-names]])

# Put them to the sword

This refers to having a sword come down on people to kill them. AT: "Kill them" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metonymy]])

# Put them to the sword

Here the word "sword" represents war. Yahweh speaks of Babylon's enemies killing them in battle as if he were placing those people under the sword's power. AT: "Kill them in battle" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metonymy]] and [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metaphor]])

# set them apart for destruction

This idiom means to destroy something completely. See how you translated this in [Jeremiah 25:9](../25/07.md). AT: "Destroy them completely" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-idiom]])

# this is Yahweh's declaration

Yahweh speaks of himself by name to express the certainty of what he is declaring. See how you translated this in [Jeremiah 1:8](../01/07.md). AT: "this is what Yahweh declares" or "this is what I, Yahweh, declare" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-123person]])

# The sounds of battle and enormous destruction are in the land

These sounds are heard during battle and great destruction. They are spoken of in the present tense to indicate that this will certainly happen soon. AT: "The sounds of fierce battle and terrible destruction are going to happen soon in the land" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metonymy]])

# translationWords

* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/raise]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/sword]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/declare]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/command]]