# General Information:

Yahweh continues telling how to destroy the people of Babylon and Chaldea.

# Kill all her bulls. Send them down to the place of slaughter

Possible meaning of "bulls" is 1) soldiers or 2) strong young men. Killing them is spoken of as taking them to a place of slaughter. (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metaphor]])

# Kill all her bulls

Yahweh speaks this to the enemies of Babylon. This can be made clear. AT: "You enemies of Babylon, kill all her bulls" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-explicit]])

# her bulls

The word "her" refers to Babylon.

# them ... their

The word "them" and "their" refer to the people of Babylon.

# their day has come—the time for their punishment

The phrases "their day" and "the time" mean the same thing and can be combined. AT: "the time for their punishment has come" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-doublet]])

# There is the sound of those fleeing

"Listen and you will hear those who are fleeing"

# those ... those ... These

The words "those" and "These" refer to the survivors from Babylon who will tell others about Yahweh's vengeance.

# the vengeance of Yahweh our God for Zion, and vengeance for his temple

The abstract noun "vengeance" can be stated as an action. AT: "Yahweh our God has taken revenge for what they did to Zion and to his temple in Jerusalem" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-abstractnouns]])

# translationWords

* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/cow]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/send]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/slaughter]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/woe]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/punish]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/report]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/avenge]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/zion]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/temple]]