# See, I am against you

Yahweh speaks this to the people of Babylon. This can be made clear. AT: "See, I am against you, people of Babylon" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-explicit]])

# See

This alerts the reader to pay special attention to what follows.

# proud one

This is Yahweh's description of Babylon.

# this is the declaration of the Lord Yahweh of hosts

Yahweh speaks of himself by name to express the certainty of what he is declaring. See how you translated this in [Jeremiah 2:19](../02/18.md). AT: "this is what the Lord Yahweh of hosts has declared" or "this is what I, the Lord Yahweh of hosts, have declared" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-123person]])

# for your day has come ... the time when I will punish you

These two phrases mean the same thing. The second phrase defines the "day" that the first phrase mentions. AT: "for the day when I will punish you has come" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-doublet]])

# your day

"your time." This refers to the entire span of time during which the horrible judgment will come upon Babylon.

# the proud ones will stumble and fall

Here "stumble and fall" are idioms that refer to defeat and death. AT: "I will cause enemies to defeat and kill the proud ones" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-idiom]])

# it will devour everything around him

Fire burning the cities of Babylon is spoken of as if the fire were an animal that ate them. (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metaphor]])

# around him

Here "him" refers to the "proud one" which describes Babylon.

# translationWords

* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/proud]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/lordgod]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/yahwehofhosts]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/biblicaltimeday]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/punish]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/raise]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/fire]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/devour]]