# A drought is coming on her waters

"A drought will soon happen that will affect all her waters"

# her waters

Here "waters" represent all the sources of water for the Babylonians, especially the river that went through the city.

# desert beasts with the jackals

Possible meanings are 1) "wild animals and hyenas" or 2) "wild demons and evil spirits."

# jackals

A jackal is a wild dog found in Asia and Africa.

# ostriches

very large African birds that run fast but cannot fly. Some versions translate this as "owl.""

# will live in her

The word "her" refers to Babylon.

# For all time, she will no longer be inhabited. From generation to generation, she will not be lived in

These two phrases mean the same thing and emphasize that Babylon will be completely uninhabited. AT: "People will never live there again; it will be uninhabited forever" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-doublet]])

# she will not be lived in

This can be stated in active form. AT: "no one will live in her" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-activepassive]])

# this is Yahweh's declaration

Yahweh speaks of himself by name to express the certainty of what he is declaring. See how you translated this in [Jeremiah 1:8](../01/07.md). AT: "this is what Yahweh has declared" or "this is what I, Yahweh, have declared" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-123person]])

# no one will live there; no person will stay in her

These two phrases mean the same thing and emphasize that Babylon will be completely uninhabited. They can be combined. AT: "no one will ever live there again" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-doublet]])

# translationWords

* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/water]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/worthy]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/falsegod]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/desert]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/beast]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/life]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/generation]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/names/sodom]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/names/gomorrah]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/neighbor]]