# General Information:

These verses are almost identical to [Jeremiah 6:22](../06/20.md) and [Jeremiah 6:23](../06/23.md). See how you translated those verses.

# See, a people is coming

Yahweh speaks to the people of Babylon. This can be made clear. AT: "See, people of Babylon, a people is coming" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-explicit]])

# See

This word adds emphasis to what follows. AT: "Indeed"

# a great nation and many kings

This phrase refers to the time when the Medes and Persians conquered Babylon in 539 BC. Here "nation" represents their armies. AT: "the armies of a great nation and many kings" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-synecdoche]])

# are being stirred up from the farthest parts of the earth

Being "stirred up" represents being urged to take action. AT: "are preparing to come from the most distant places on earth" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metaphor]] and [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-activepassive]])

# They will pick up bows and spears

"The soldiers will carry bows and spears"

# Their sound is like the sea roar

The loud noise that the soldiers make is compared to the loud noise of the sea. AT: "The sound that they make is very loud, like the sound of the sea" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-simile]])

# they are riding on horses, set out in order as men for battle

The phrase "set out in order" means that they have organized themselves and are riding in rows. The phrase "as men for battle" indicates that they are ready to fight. AT: "they are riding on horses in their assigned rows, and they are ready to fight"

# daughter of Babylon

This phrase refers to the Babylonian people. (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metonymy]])

# translationWords

* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/nation]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/king]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/bowweapon]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/spear]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/compassion]]