# General Information:

This verse is almost identical to [Jeremiah 49:19](../49/19.md). See how you translated that verse.

# Behold!

The word "Behold" here tells the reader to pay attention to what follows. AT: "Pay attention!"

# He goes up like a lion from the heights of the Jordan to the enduring grazing place

This simile means that when Yahweh punishes the people of Babylon, it will be fierce and unexpected like when a lion attacks sheep. This can be stated in the first person. AT: "When I punish the people of Babylon, it will be fierce and unexpected like when a lion comes out of mountains and attacks sheep in the pasture" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-simile]] and [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-123person]])

# the enduring grazing place

This is land covered with grass where animals feed on the grass.

# I will quickly cause them to run from it

Here "them" refers to the Babylonian people; the word "it" refers to the invasion.

# who will be chosen

This can be stated in active form. AT: "whom I will choose" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-activepassive]])

# For who is like me, and who will summon me?

Yahweh uses this question to emphasize that no one is like him. AT: "For no one is like me, no one can summon me." (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-rquestion]])

# who will summon me

"who will challenge me" or "who will call me to account"

# What shepherd is able to resist me?

Yahweh uses this question to show no one can defeat him. Here "shepherd" is a metaphor for "king" or "ruler." AT: "No king is able to resist me." (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-rquestion]] and [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metaphor]])

# translationWords

* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/lion]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/jordanriver]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/shepherd]]