# General Information:

These verses are almost identical to [Jeremiah 49:20](../49/20.md) and [Jeremiah 49:21](../49/21.md). See how you translated those verses.

# the plans that Yahweh has decided against Babylon, the plans that he has planned against the land of the Chaldeans

These two phrases have the same meaning and are used together for emphasis. AT: "the plans that Yahweh has decided for the people of Babylon and the Chaldeans" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-parallelism]])

# They will certainly be dragged away, even the smallest flock

This continues speaking of Yahweh punishing the people of Babylon as if he would come like a lion and attack the sheep. This can be stated in active form. AT: "He will drag them away, even the smallest flock" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metaphor]] and [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-activepassive]])

# even the smallest flock

Here the youngest and weakest people of Babylon are spoken of as if they were the smallest flock of sheep. AT: "even the youngest and weakest" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metaphor]])

# Their pasturelands will be turned into ruined places

Here the land of Babylonia is spoken of as if it were pasturelands for flocks. This can be stated in active form. AT: "He will turn their pasturelands into ruined places" or "He will completely destroy the people who live there" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metaphor]] and [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-activepassive]])

# At the sound of conquered Babylon the earth shakes

This phrase compares the fall of the once powerful nation of Babylon to the extremely loud noise of an earthquake. AT: "The fall of Babylon will sound like a mighty earthquake" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metaphor]])

# distress

pain or unhappiness

# their shout of distress

"their shout of pain"