# the word of Yahweh came

This is an idiom that is used to introduce something that God told his prophets or his people. See how you translated this in [Ezekiel 3:16](../03/16.md). AT: "Yahweh spoke this message" or "Yahweh spoke these words" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-idiom]])

# Son of man

"Son of a human being" or "Son of humanity." God calls Ezekiel this to emphasize that Ezekiel is only a human being. God is eternal and powerful, but humans are not. See how you translated this in [Ezekiel 2:1](../02/01.md). AT: "Mortal person" or "Human"

# a sword against any land

The word "sword" refers to an enemy army that attacks. Also, "land" refers to the people who live there. AT: "an army to attack the people of any land" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metonymy]])

# make him a watchman

"appoint him as a guard" or "make him guard"

# He looks for the sword

Here "sword" represents an enemy army. AT: "He looks for an enemy army" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metonymy]])

# do not pay attention

"ignore the warning"

# each one's blood is on his own head

Here "blood" represents death. The phrase "on his own head" is an idiom that means the person will be held responsible. AT: "it is their own fault if they die" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metonymy]] and [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-idiom]])

# translationWords

* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/wordofgod]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/sonofman]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/declare]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/peoplegroup]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/sword]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/watch]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/trumpet]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/blood]]