# General Information:

Yahweh continues giving Ezekiel his message to the Israelites.

# the house of Israel

Here "house" represents people. AT: "the people of Israel" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metonymy]])

# You are saying this

"This is what you have said"

# Our transgressions and our sins are on us

Possible meanings are 1) "on us" is a metaphor that means they feel guilty for their transgressions and sins or 2) "on us" is a metaphor that means they realize that Yahweh is punishing them for their transgressions and sins. (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metaphor]])

# we are decaying in them

"we are rotting away because of them." Being destroyed because of sin is spoken of as if the person's flesh were rotting. AT: "they are destroying us" or "they are killing us" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metaphor]])

# in them

"because of them"

# How can we live?

The people ask this question to emphasize that they have no hope of living. AT: "We have no hope of living." or "We will certainly die." (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-rquestion]])

# As I live

"As surely as I am alive." Yahweh uses this expression to show that what he says next is certainly true. This is a way of making a solemn promise. See how you translated this in [Ezekiel 5:11](../05/11.md). AT: "I solemnly swear" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-idiom]])

# this is the Lord Yahweh's declaration

Yahweh speaks of himself by name to express the certainty of what he is declaring. See how you translated this in [Ezekiel 5:11](../05/11.md). AT: "this is what the Lord Yahweh has declared" or "this is what I, the Lord Yahweh, have declared" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-123person]])

# I do not delight in the death of the wicked

The abstract noun "death" can be stated as "die." And the nominal adjective "the wicked" can be stated as "wicked people." AT: "It does not make me happy when wicked people die" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-abstractnouns]] and [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-nominaladj]])

# if the wicked repents from his way

Here "way" represents how a person behaves. AT: "if the wicked person stops doing bad things" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metaphor]])

# For why should you die, house of Israel?

Yahweh uses this question to emphasize that he does not want the people of Israel to die. AT: "Do not choose to die, house of Israel!" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-rquestion]])