# General Information:

Yahweh continues giving Ezekiel his message to the Israelites.

# your people

These are the people of Israel. The word "your" refers to Ezekiel.

# The way of the Lord ... your ways that are not fair

Behaviors or actions is spoken of as if they were a way or road on which a person travels. AT: "What the Lord does ... the things you do that are not fair" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metaphor]])

# but it is your ways

The word "your" refers to the people of Israel. This can be stated in third person. AT: "but it is their ways" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-123person]])

# turns away from his righteousness

No longer doing something is spoken of as if it were physically turning away from something. AT: "stops doing what is right" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metaphor]])

# die in it

"die because of his sins"

# turns away from his wickedness

No longer doing something is spoken of as if it were physically turning away from something. AT: "stops doing wicked things" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metaphor]])

# because of those things

"because he does what is just and righteous"

# you people

These are the people of Israel.

# house of Israel

Here "house" represents people. AT: "people of Israel" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metonymy]])

# translationWords

* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/peoplegroup]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/lord]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/righteous]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/evil]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/justice]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/judge]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/house]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/israel]]