# General Information:

Yahweh continues speaking to Ezekiel about the people who were living in the ruins of Israel.

# You eat blood

It is implied that they eat blood by eating meat that still has blood in it. Yahweh had commanded them to drain out the blood. AT: "You eat meat with blood in it" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-explicit]])

# you lift up your eyes towards your idols

"you look to your idols" This is an idiom. AT: "you worship your idols" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-idiom]]).

# you pour out people's blood

Here "blood" represents a person's life. To pour out blood is an idiom that means to murder. AT: "you murder people" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metonymy]] and [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-idiom]])

# Should you really possess the land?

Yahweh used this question to rebuke the people. AT: "You should not possess this land!" or "You do not deserve this land!" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-rquestion]])

# You have depended on your swords

Here "swords" represent doing violent things. AT: "You have committed violent acts with your swords to get what you want" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metonymy]])

# done disgusting things

"done things that I hate very much"

# each man defiles his neighbor's wife

It is implied that they defile their neighbor's wives by sleeping with them. AT: "each man sleeps with his neighbor's wife" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-explicit]])

# translationWords

* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/lordyahweh]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/blood]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/idol]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/sword]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/defile]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/neighbor]]