# General Information:

Yahweh continues speaking to Ezekiel about the people who were living in the ruins of Israel.

# As I live

"As surely as I am alive." Yahweh uses this expression to show that what he says next is certainly true. This is a way of making a solemn promise. See how you translated this in [Ezekiel 5:11](../05/11.md). AT: "I solemnly swear" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-idiom]])

# the ones in the ruins will fall by the sword

The phrase "fall by the sword" is an idiom. AT: "enemies will kill the ones living in the ruins" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-idiom]])

# those in fortresses and in caves will die of plagues

"plagues will kill the people who live in fortresses and caves"

# fortresses

A fortress is a building that people build to protect themselves from enemies who attack them.

# caves

Caves are natural holes in the side of a mountain or down in the ground. They are usually made of rock.

# the pride of its might will end

The word "it" refers to the land, which refers to the people of the land. AT: "the people of the land will not be proud anymore that they are strong" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metonymy]])

# the mountains of Israel will be deserted

This can be stated in active form. AT: "no one will live in the mountains of Israel" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-activepassive]])

# there will be no one to pass through them

"there will be no one left to travel through the land or over the mountains"

# know that I am Yahweh

When Yahweh says that people will know that he is Yahweh, he is implying that they will know that he is the one true God who has supreme authority and power. See how you translated this in [Ezekiel 6:7](../06/06.md). AT: "understand that I am Yahweh, the one true God" or "realize that I, Yahweh, have supreme power and authority" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-explicit]])

# all the abominations that they have done

The abstract noun "abominations" can be stated as "things I hate." AT: "all the things they have done that I hate" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-abstractnouns]])

# they have done

"the people have done"

# translationWords

* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/ruin]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/life]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/creature]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/plague]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/desolate]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/waste]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/proud]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/mighty]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/israel]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/abomination]]