# General Information:

Yahweh begins speaking again to the people of Israel in verse 1, but the prophet Malachi begins speaking in verse 2.

# See

"Look" or "Listen" or "Pay attention to what I am about to tell you"

# he will prepare the way before me

Here getting people ready to welcome Yahweh is spoken of as if a road were being cleared for Yahweh to travel on. (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metaphor]])

# Then the Lord, whom you seek ... The messenger of the covenant in whom you delight

Some modern versions translate this in a way that implies that these two expressions refer to the same person. Other modern versions leave this matter ambiguous. We recommend that translations leave this matter ambiguous, as the ULB and UDB do.

# The messenger of the covenant

Almost all versions leave ambiguous the sense of this expression. But translators may need to make explicit the relationship between "messenger" and "the covenant." The UDB presents "the messenger" as one promised by the covenant that Yahweh had with Israel. Another choice is to present the messenger as a person who will either confirm that covenant or announce a new covenant.

# But who will be able to endure the day of his coming? Who will be able to stand when he appears?

These rhetorical questions imply that no one will be able to resist Yahweh when he comes. They can be combined into one statement. AT: "However, no one will be able to resist Yahweh when he comes to judge them." (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-rquestion]])

# the day of his coming

Here "day" stands for "time." AT: "the time when he comes"

# be able to stand

Here standing represents resisting someone's attack or accusations. (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metaphor]])

# For he will be like a refiner's fire and like laundry soap

This sentence gives the reason why no one will be able to resist God when he comes. God's power to judge the people and to stop them from sinning is spoken of as if it were the power of strong soap to clean clothes, or the power of fire to melt an object. These are ways of saying that God's power to do these things cannot be stopped. (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-simile]])

# he will purify the sons of Levi

Forgiving the sons of Levi and persuading them not to sin any longer is spoken of as if it were purifying metal. AT: "he will correct the sons of Levi and forgive them for having sinned" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metaphor]])

# the sons of Levi

Here "sons" refers to descendants. The male descendants of Levi were the priests and workers in the temple. (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metaphor]])

# He will sit

Here sitting implies the action of a metalworker, who sits down in order to purify small amounts of gold or silver. It also implies the action of a king, who sits down to judge people and give decrees. (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-simile]] and [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-explicit]])

# He will refine them like gold and silver

Here persuading people not to sin any longer is spoken of as if a metalworker were making gold and silver more pure. (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-simile]])

# they will bring offerings of righteousness to Yahweh

Here "of righteousness" means "motivated by righteous desires to worship God." AT: "they will bring acceptable offerings to Yahweh in order to worship Yahweh"

# translationWords

* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/lord]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/temple]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/covenant]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/yahwehofhosts]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/endure]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/purify]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/names/levite]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/righteous]]