# General Information:

These verses begin a new section in the book. Here Yahweh is speaking to the people of Israel.

# Your words against me have been strong

Here "strong" stands for "harsh" or "terrible." And "Your words" stands for "What you have said." AT: "What you have said about me is terrible" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metaphor]] and [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-abstractnouns]])

# What have we said among ourselves against you?

The people ask this question in order to claim that they have said nothing against God. This can be expressed as a statement. AT: "We have not said anything among ourselves against you." (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-rquestion]])

# What profit is it that we have kept his requirements or walked mournfully before Yahweh of hosts?

The people ask this question among themselves in order to make a statement. AT: "It is useless that we have kept his requirements and walked mournfully before Yahweh of hosts." (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-rquestion]])

# walked mournfully before Yahweh of hosts

Here "walk mournfully" stands for "behave in a sorrowful manner," probably in order to indicate sorrow over their sins. (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metaphor]])

# before Yahweh of hosts

Here this expression refers to God being aware of what the people were doing. (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metaphor]])

# we call the arrogant blessed

Here to be called "blessed" stands for being blessed. AT: "we say that the arrogant are blessed" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metaphor]])

# we call the arrogant blessed

This may be stated in active form. AT: "we say that the arrogant are well off" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-activepassive]])

# escape

That is, "they escape God's punishment." (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-explicit]])