# General Information:

Yahweh continues speaking. This is part of the prophecy that he starts revealing to Jeremiah in [Jeremiah 2:1](../02/01.md).

# will he return to her again?

God uses this question to remind the people that a man would never return to his wife if another man marries her. This question can be translated as a statement. AT: "he would not return to her again." (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-rquestion]])

# Would that land not be greatly polluted?

God uses this question to remind the people that a married man would not return to his wife if she married another man, because he knows that the land would become ceremonially unclean. This question can be translated as a statement. AT: "He knows that if he did, the land would be greatly polluted." (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-rquestion]])

# greatly polluted

This is a metaphor for being terribly unacceptable to God. AT: "completely unacceptable to God" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metaphor]])

# You have lived as a prostitute who has many lovers

God speaks of Israel worshiping many idols as being like a woman having sex with many men. AT: "You have given your love and trust to idols the way a prostitute gives her body to men who are not her husband" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-simile]])

# and would you return to me?

God uses this question to show the Israelites that because they worshiped idols, they should not think that God would allow them to return to him. This question can be translated as a statement. AT: "yet now you want to return to me!" or "yet you think that I should allow you to come back to me!" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-rquestion]])

# this is Yahweh's declaration

Yahweh speaks of himself by name to express the certainty of what he is declaring. See how you translated this in [Jeremiah 1:8](../01/07.md). AT: "this is what Yahweh has declared" or "this is what I, Yahweh, have declared" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-123person]])

# Lift up your eyes

Here "your eyes" represents looking at something. AT: "Look up" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metonymy]])

# Is there any place where you have not had illicit sex?

God speaks of Israel worshiping idols as if they were a woman who had sex with many different men. He uses this question to tell the Israelites that he knows that they have worshiped idols everywhere. This question can be translated as a statement. AT: "There is no place where you have not had illicit sex!" or "As a whore sleeps with many men, you have worshiped your idols everywhere!" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metaphor]] and [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-rquestion]])

# By the roadsides you sat waiting for your lovers

God speaks of his people being eager to worship any idol as being like a prostitute waiting by the road for any man to come along. AT: "Like a prostitutes waiting at the roadside for her lovers, you were eager to worship any idol you learned about" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metaphor]])

# as an Arab in the wilderness

God speaks of his people being eager to worship any idol as being like someone in the wilderness waiting for anyone to come along so he could rob them. AT: "like an Arab in the wilderness waiting for people he might rob" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-simile]])

# an Arab in the wilderness

An Arab is a person from Arabia. Some Arabs lived as nomads in the desert and would rob others who came near them. AT: "a nomad in the wilderness" or "a robber in the wilderness" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/translate-names]] and [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/translate-unknown]])

# translationWords

* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/divorce]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/prostitute]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/lover]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/yahweh]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/barren]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/desert]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/evil]]