# Lift up your eyes

Here "your eyes" represents looking at something. AT: "Look up" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metonymy]])

# Is there any place where you have not had illicit sex?

God speaks of Israel worshiping idols as if they were a woman who had sex with many different men. He uses this question to tell the Israelites that he knows that they have worshiped idols everywhere. This question can be translated as a statement. AT: "There is no place where you have not had illicit sex!" or "As a whore sleeps with many men, you have worshiped your idols everywhere!" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metaphor]] and [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-rquestion]])

# By the roadsides you sat waiting for your lovers

God speaks of his people being eager to worship any idol as being like a prostitute waiting by the road for any man to come along. AT: "Like a prostitutes waiting at the roadside for her lovers, you were eager to worship any idol you learned about" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metaphor]])

# as an Arab in the wilderness

God speaks of his people being eager to worship any idol as being like someone in the wilderness waiting for anyone to come along so he could rob them. AT: "like an Arab in the wilderness waiting for people he might rob" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-simile]])

# an Arab in the wilderness

An Arab is a person from Arabia. Some Arabs lived as nomads in the desert and would rob others who came near them. AT: "a nomad in the wilderness" or "a robber in the wilderness" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/translate-names]] and [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/translate-unknown]])

