# Acknowledge your iniquity

"Admit how you have sinned." God was speaking to Israel.

# you have shared your ways with strangers under every leafy tree!

The word "strangers" refers to foreign gods. God speaks of Israel worshiping foreign gods as if Israel were a woman who was having sex with strangers. (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metaphor]])

# under every leafy tree

People would worship idols under trees. The word "every" is a generalization used to show that the people of Israel worshiped many gods under many different trees. (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-hyperbole]])

# you have not listened to my voice

Here "listened" represents obeying, and "my voice" represents what God has said. AT: "you have not obeyed what I have said" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metonymy]])

# this is Yahweh's declaration

Yahweh speaks of himself by name to express the certainty of what he is declaring. See how you translated this in [Jeremiah 1:8](../01/07.md). AT: "this is what Yahweh has declared" or "this is what I, Yahweh, have declared" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-123person]])

# I am your husband

God speaks of Israel belonging to him as if he were Israel's husband. AT: "you belong to me as a wife belongs to her husband" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metaphor]])

# I will give you shepherds ... they will shepherd you

Here God speaks of leaders as if they were shepherds and the people they led were sheep. AT: "I will give you leaders ... they will lead you" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metaphor]])

# shepherds after my heart

Here "heart" represents Yahweh's desire or will. The phrase "after my heart" is an idiom that describes people who do God's will. AT: "shepherds who do my will" or "shepherds who do what I want" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metonymy]] and [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-idiom]])

# translationWords

* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/acknowledge]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/iniquity]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/transgression]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/god]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/voice]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/peopleofgod]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/zion]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/shepherd]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/know]]