# This is Yahweh's throne

Here "Yahweh's throne" represents the place from where Yahweh rules. AT: "This is from where Yahweh rules" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metonymy]])

# They will no longer walk in the stubbornness of their wicked hearts

Yahweh speaks of people's actions as if the people were walking along a path. Here the word "hearts" represents their minds or wills. AT: "They will no longer stubbornly do the wicked things that they want to do" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metaphor]] and [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metonymy]])

# the house of Judah will walk with the house of Israel

Here "walk with" represents being united. AT: "the people of Judah will be united with the people of Israel" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metaphor]])

# the house of Judah

The word "house" is a metonym for the family that lives in the house. In this case it refers to the kingdom of Judah, which included the descendants of Judah and Benjamin. AT: "Judah" or "the kingdom of Judah" or "the people of Judah" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metonymy]])

# the house of Israel

The word "house" is a metonym for the family that lives in the house. In this case it refers to the kingdom of Israel. AT: "Israel" or "the kingdom of Israel" or "the people of Israel" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metonymy]])

# the land that I gave your ancestors as an inheritance

God speaks of giving them the land to possess forever as if it were an inheritance. AT: "the land that I gave to your ancestors so that it would belong to their descendants forever" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metaphor]])

# translationWords

* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/names/jerusalem]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/throne]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/nation]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/name]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/walk]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/stiffnecked]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/house]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/inherit]]