# Surely lies come from the hills

Here "the hills" represent the people's worship of false gods on the hills. The people now realize that those false gods could not guide and help them. AT: "The false gods that we worshiped on the hills could not guide us" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metonymy]])

# a confusing noise from the mountains

People made a lot of noise on the hills and mountains when they worshiped false gods. AT: "We made a confusing noise on the mountains while we worshiped them, but they did not help us" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-explicit]])

# surely Yahweh our God is the salvation of Israel

"surely Yahweh our God is the savior of Israel" or "surely Yahweh our God is the only one who can save Israel"

# shameful idols have consumed what our ancestors have worked for

This represents the people of Israel losing many of their possessions because they offered them to the idols. (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metaphor]])

# their flocks and cattle, their sons and daughters

This is a list of animals and people that the people of Israel had killed and offered to the idols.

# Let us lie down in shame. May our shame cover us

These phrases share similar meanings and emphasize that the people are fully aware of their shameful behavior. AT: "Let us be completely humiliated" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-parallelism]])

# May our shame cover us

Being fully aware of their shame is spoken of as if shame were covering them like a blanket or a garment. (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metaphor]])

# from the time of our youthfulness

Possible meanings are that 1) "the time of our youthfulness" refers to when each person was young. AT: "from when we were young" or 2) "the time of our youthfulness" is a metaphor that refers to when Israel was first becoming a nation. AT: "from when we were first becoming a nation" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metaphor]])

# have not listened to the voice of Yahweh our God

Here "listened" represents obeying, and "the voice of Yahweh" represents what Yahweh has said. AT: "have not obeyed what Yahweh our God has said" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metonymy]])

# translationWords

* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/save]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/falsegod]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/consume]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/works]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/flock]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/cow]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/sin]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/voice]]