# General Information:

Parallelism is common in Hebrew poetry. (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/writing-poetry]] and [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-parallelism]])

# A psalm of the sons of Korah; a song

"This is a psalm that the sons of Korah wrote"

# gates of Zion

Here "gates of Zion" represents the entire city of Jerusalem. AT: "city of Jerusalem" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-synecdoche]])

# all the tents of Jacob

The people lived in tents while they wandered in the desert. Here the writer uses "tents of Jacob" to represent where the Israelites live now. AT: "any of the other dwelling places of the Israelites" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metonymy]])

# Glorious things are said of you, city of God

The writer speaks to the city of Jerusalem as if it were listening to him. This can be stated in active form. AT: "You people in Jerusalem, other people say wonderful things about your city" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-apostrophe]] and [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-activepassive]])

# Selah

This may be a musical term that tells people how to sing or play their instruments here. Some translations write the Hebrew word, and some translations do not include it. See how you translated this in [Psalms 3:2](../003/001.md). (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/translate-transliterate]])

# translationWords

* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/psalm]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/son]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/korah]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/yahweh]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/holy]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/yahweh]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/love]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/gate]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/zion]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/tent]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/jacob]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/glory]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/god]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/selah]]