# He said

Here the word "He" refers to Ahijah.

# tear the kingdom out

Here "tear ... out" is a metaphor that refers to the action of forcefully removing. This is like a person tears apart a piece of cloth. See how you translated this phrase in [1 Kings 11:11](./11.md). AT: "forcefully take the kingdom out" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metaphor]])

# the hand of Solomon

Here "hand" is a metonym that refers to a person's authority, control and power. AT: "Solomon's control" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metonymy]])

# Solomon will have

The name "Solomon" here is a metonym referring to his descendants. AT: "Solomon's sons will have" or "Solomon's descendants will have" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metonymy]])

# Ashtoreth ... Chemosh ... Molech

These are the names of false gods. (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/translate-names]])

# Sidonians ... Moab ... Ammon

These are the names of locations and the people groups that live there. (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/translate-names]])

# what is right in my eyes

"Eyes" here is a metonym for someone's opinion or idea. This is a commonly used idiom. AT: "what I consider to be right" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metonymy]] and [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-idiom]])

# translationWords

* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/yahweh]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/god]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/israel]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/kingdom]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/tribe]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/servant]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/jerusalem]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/forsaken]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/worship]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/sidon]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/moab]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/ammon]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/walk]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/statute]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/decree]]