# General Information:

Nahum tells the people of Nineveh how Yahweh will deal with them.

# What are you people plotting against Yahweh?

This rhetorical question emphasizes the futility of making evil plans against Yahweh. AT: "It is futile for you people to plot against Yahweh" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-rquestion]])

# He will make a full end to it

The idiom "make a full end" refers to causing something to exist no longer. AT: "He will completely stop what you do" or "He will cause your plotting to fail" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-idiom]])

# trouble will not rise up a second time

Possible meanings are 1) "trouble" is a metonym for the punishment that Yahweh will inflict upon the people. AT: "Yahweh will not have to punish you a second time" or 2) "trouble" refers to the trouble that the people cause by plotting against Yahweh. AT: "you will not cause trouble a second time" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metonymy]])

# they will become tangled up like thornbushes

Possible meanings for this metaphor are 1) the people who plot against Yahweh will not be able to free themselves from the trouble that Yahweh will bring upon them, like a person who is tangled up in thornbushes cannot easily free himself or 2) just as thornbushes burn more quickly when they are tangled together, Yahweh will quickly destroy those who plot against him. (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metaphor]])

# they will be saturated in their own drink

Nahum speaks of those who plot against Yahweh suffering the consequences of their plans as if they were completely drunk with alcohol. (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metaphor]])

# they will be completely devoured by fire like dry stubble

Nahum speaks of Yahweh completely destroying those who plot against him as if fire would burn them up like fire burns up dry stubble. This can be stated in active form. AT: "fire will completely devour them like it devours dry stubble" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metaphor]] and [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-activepassive]])

# devoured by fire

Nahum speaks of fire burning something completely as if the fire were devouring that thing. AT: "burned up by fire" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metaphor]])

# promoted wickedness

encouraged people to do wicked things

# translationWords

* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/peoplegroup]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/yahweh]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/raise]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/fire]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/nineveh]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/evil]]