# are they not written in the book of the events of the kings of Judah?

This can be expressed in active form and assumes that the answer is positive. The question is rhetorical and is used for emphasis. AT: "they are written in the book of the events of the kings of Judah." or "you can read about them in the book of the events of the kings of Judah." (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-activepassive]] and [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-rquestion]])

# the book of the events of the kings of Judah

This refers to a book that no longer exists.

# There was constant warfare

"There was continuing war" or "There were constant battles"

# warfare between Rehoboam and Jeroboam

The names of the kings represent themselves and their armies. AT: "the armies of Rehoboam and Jeroboam fought in battle again and again" or "Rehoboam and his people and Jeroboam and his people engaged in battle continually" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-synecdoche]])

# slept with his ancestors

Rehoboam dying is spoken of as if he had fallen asleep. See how you translated this in [1 Kings 2:10](../02/10.md). AT: "died" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metaphor]] and [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-euphemism]])

# was buried with them

This can be stated in active form. AT: "people buried him" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-activepassive]])

# Naamah

This is the name of a woman. See how you translated this in [1 Kings 14:21](./21.md). (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/translate-names]])

# Abijah his son

"Abijah the son of Rehoboam"

# became king in his place

The phrase "in his place" is a metaphor meaning "instead of him." AT: "became king instead of Rehoboam" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metaphor]])

# translationWords

* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/written]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/kingdomofjudah]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/jeroboam]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/sleep]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/bury]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/cityofdavid]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/ammon]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/abijah]]