# See

"Look" or "Listen." This word adds emphasis to what is said next.

# Yahweh rides on a swift cloud

Yahweh seems to be pictured here as riding on a cloud as if he was riding in a chariot. (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metaphor]])

# the idols of Egypt quake before him

The idols are described as having feelings of fear as Yahweh approaches. AT: "the idols of Egypt tremble in fear before Yahweh" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-personification]])

# the hearts of the Egyptians melt within themselves

The heart melting represents losing their courage. AT: "the Egyptians have no more courage" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metaphor]])

# a man against his neighbor

The words "will fight" are understood from the previous phrase. AT: "a man will fight against his neighbor" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-ellipsis]])

# city will be against city

The word "city" represents the people of the city. AT: "people of one city will fight against people of another city" or "people from different cities will fight against one another" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metonymy]])

# kingdom against kingdom

The words "will be" or "will fight" are understood from the previous phrases. AT: "kingdom will be against kingdom" or "kingdom will fight against kingdom" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-ellipsis]])

# kingdom against kingdom

The word "kingdom" refers to a smaller kingdom within Egypt. It may also be called a province. It represents the people of that kingdom or province. AT: "the people of one province will be against the people of another province" or "people from different provinces will fight against one another" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metonymy]])