# The princes of Zoan are completely foolish. The advice of the wisest advisors of Pharaoh has become senseless

These two phrases are similar in meaning. Either the princes of Zoan are also the wisest advisors or Pharaoh, or they are another group of people that also are shown to be foolish. (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-parallelism]])

# Zoan

This is a city in northern Egypt. (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/translate-names]])

# How can you say to Pharaoh ... kings?

Isaiah uses a question to mock those in Egypt who claim to be wise. AT: "You foolishly say to Pharaoh ... kings." (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-rquestion]])

# Where then are your wise men?

Isaiah uses a question to mock the wise men. The word "your" refers to Pharaoh. AT: "You do not have any wise men." or "Your wise men are fools." (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-rquestion]])

# Let them tell you and make known what Yahweh of hosts plans concerning Egypt

Isaiah is implying that wise men should be able to understand God's plans, but Isaiah does not really believe they are wise. AT: "If they were really wise, they would be able to tell you what Yahweh of hosts plans concerning Egypt" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-irony]])

# translationWords

* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/prince]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/foolish]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/counselor]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/wise]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/pharaoh]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/king]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/yahwehofhosts]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/egypt]]