# rescue me

"save me"

# from the hand of my brother, from the hand of Esau

Here the word "hand" refers to power. The two phrases mean basically the same thing. The second clarifies that the brother whom Jacob intended was Esau. AT: "from the power of my brother, Esau" or "from my brother, Esau" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metonymy]] and [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-parallelism]])

# I am afraid of him, that he will

"I am afraid that he will"

# But you said, 'I will certainly make you prosper. I will make your descendants ... number.'

This is a quotation within a quotation. It can be stated an an indirect quotation. AT: "But you said that you would certainly prosper me, and that you would make my descendants ... number" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-quotesinquotes]] and [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-quotations]])

# make you prosper

"do good to you" or "treat you well"

# I will make your descendants like the sand of the sea

This speaks about the very large number of Jacob's descendants as if their number will be like the grains of sand on the seashore. (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-simile]])

# which cannot be numbered for their number

This can be stated in active form. AT: "which no one can count because of their number" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-activepassive]])

# translationWords

* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/hand]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/esau]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/fear]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/descendant]]