# General Information:

This scripture was written long before in God's word.

# Have you not read this scripture?

Jesus reminds the people of a scripture passage. He uses a rhetorical question here to rebuke them. This can be written as a statement. AT: "Surely you have read this scripture." or "You should remember this scripture." (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-rquestion]])

# has been made the cornerstone

This can be stated in active form. AT: "the Lord made into the cornerstone"

# This was from the Lord

"The Lord has done this"

# it is marvelous in our eyes

Here "in our eyes" stands for seeing, which is a metaphor for the people's opinion. AT: "we have seen it and think that it is marvelous" or "we think that it is wonderful" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metaphor]])

# They sought to arrest Jesus

"They" refers to the chief priests, scribes, and elders. This group may be referred to as the "Jewish leaders."

# sought

"wanted"

# but they feared the crowd

They were afraid of what the crowd would do to them if they arrested Jesus. This can be made clear. AT: "but they feared what the crowd would do if they arrested him" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-explicit]])

# against them

"to accuse them"

# translationWords

* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/wordofgod]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/reject]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/cornerstone]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/lord]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/amazed]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/jesus]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/fear]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/parable]]