# There were seven brothers

The Sadducees propose a scenario to test Jesus. This is a hypothetical situation. AT: "Suppose there were seven brothers" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-hypo]])

# the first ... the second ... the third

These numbers refer to each of the brothers and can be expressed as such. AT: "the first brother ... the second brother ... the third brother" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-ellipsis]])

# The seven

This refers to all the brothers. AT: "The seven brothers" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-ellipsis]])

# the first took a wife ... the second took her

"the first married a woman ... the second married her." Here marrying a woman is spoken of as "taking" her.

# the third likewise

It may be helpful to explain what "likewise" means. AT: "the third brother married her as his other bothers did, and he also died leaving no children" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-explicit]])

# The seven left no children

Each of the brothers married the woman and then died before he had any children with her. This can be stated clearly. AT: "Eventually all seven brothers married that woman one by one, but none of them had any children with her, and one by one they died" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-explicit]])

# In the resurrection, when they rise again, whose wife will she be?

The Sadducees are testing Jesus by asking this question. This can be written as a statement. AT: "Now tell us whose wife she will be in the resurrection, when they all rise again." (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-rquestion]])