# that are raised

This can be expressed with an active verb. AT: "who rise" or "who rise to live again" [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-activepassive]])

# The Book of Moses

"the book that Moses wrote"

# the account about the bush

This refers to the part of the Book of Moses that tells about when God spoke to Moses out of a bush that was burning but that did not burn up. AT: "the passage about the burning bush" or "the words about the fiery bush" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-explicit]])

# the bush

This refers to a shrub, a woody plant that is smaller than a tree.

# how God spoke to him

"about when God spoke to Moses"

# I am the God of Abraham ... Isaac ... Jacob

This means that Abraham, Isaac, and Jacob worship God. These men have died physically, but they are still alive spiritually and still worship God.

# not the God of the dead, but of the living

Here "the dead" refers to people who are dead, and "the living" refers to people who are alive. Also, the words "the God" can be stated clearly in the second phrase. AT: "not the God of dead people, but the God of living people" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-nominaladj]] and [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-ellipsis]])

# the living

This includes people who are alive physically and spiritually.

# You are quite mistaken

It may be helpful to state what they are mistaken about. AT: "When you say that dead people do not rise again, you are quite mistaken" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-explicit]])

# quite mistaken

"completely mistaken" or "very wrong"

# translationWords

* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/moses]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/abraham]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/isaac]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/jacob]]