# Good

"Good answer"

# God is one

This means that there is only one God. AT: "there is only one God" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-idiom]])

# that there is no other

The word "God" is understood from the previous phrase. AT: "that there is no other God" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-ellipsis]])

# with all the heart ... all the understanding ... all the strength

The "heart" is a metaphor for a person's inner being and his desires and feelings. "Understanding" refers to a person's thinking, and "strength" refers to a person's strength to do things. AT: "in all that we want and feel, in all that we think, and in all that we do" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metaphor]])

# the heart ... the understanding ... the strength

The word "the" is placed in these ellipses where the word "your" has been left out. It may be added. AT: "your heart ... your mind ... your strength" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-ellipsis]])

# to love one's neighbor as oneself

This simile compares how people are to love each other with the same love that they love themselves. AT: "to love your neighbor as much as you love yourself" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-simile]])

# is even more than

This idiom means that something is more important than something else. In this case, these two commandments are more pleasing to God that burnt offering and sacrifices. This may be written clearly. AT: "is even more important than" or "is even more pleasing to God than" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-idiom]])

# You are not far from the kingdom of God

This can be stated in positive form. Here Jesus speaks of the man being ready to submit to God as king as being physically close to the kingdom of God, as if it where a physical place. AT: "You are close to submitting to God as king" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-litotes]] and [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metaphor]])

# no one dared

This can be stated in positive form. AT: "everyone was afraid" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-litotes]])