# While Jesus was teaching in the temple courts, he said

Some time has passed and Jesus is now in the temple. This is not part of the previous conversation. AT: "Later, while Jesus was teaching in the temple area, he said to the people" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-explicit]])

# How is it that the scribes say the Christ is the son of David?

Jesus uses this question to get the people to think deeply about the Psalm he is about to quote. This can be written as a statement. AT: "Consider why the scribes say the Christ is the son of David." (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-rquestion]])

# the son of David

"a descendant of David"

# David himself

This word "himself" refers to David and is used to place emphasis on him and what he said. AT: "It was David who" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-rpronouns]])

# in the Holy Spirit

This means that he was inspired by the Holy Spirit. That is, the Holy Spirit directed David in what he said. AT: "inspired by the Holy Spirit" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-idiom]])

# said, 'The Lord said to my Lord

Here David calls God "The Lord" and calls the Christ "my Lord." This can be written more clearly. AT: "said about the Christ, 'The Lord God said to my Lord" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-explicit]])

# Sit at my right hand

Jesus is quoting a psalm. Here God is speaking to the Christ. To sit at the "right hand of God" is a symbolic action of receiving great honor and authority from God. AT: "Sit in the place of honor beside me" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/translate-symaction]])

# until I make your enemies your footstool

In this quote, God speaks of defeating enemies as making them into a footstool. AT: "until I completely defeat your enemies" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metaphor]])

# calls him 'Lord,'

Here the word "him" refers to the Christ.

# so how can the Christ be David's son?

This can be written as a statement. AT: "so consider how the Christ can be a descendant of David" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-rquestion]])

# translationWords

* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/temple]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/scribe]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/christ]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/names/david]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/holyspirit]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/lord]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/hand]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/adversary]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/footstool]]