# General Information:

Parallelism is common in Hebrew poetry. (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/writing-poetry]] and [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-parallelism]])

# Not to us, Yahweh, not to us

The writer repeats the phrase "Not to us" in order to emphasize that they are not worthy to receive the honor that is due only to Yahweh. If necessary, a verbal phrase may be supplied here. AT: "Do not bring honor to us, Yahweh" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-doublet]] and [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-ellipsis]])

# to us

The word "us" refers to the people of Israel.

# but to your name bring honor

Here the word "name" represents Yahweh, himself. AT: "but bring honor to yourself" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metonymy]])

# for your covenant faithfulness and for your trustworthiness

The abstract noun "faithfulness" can be translated as an adjective. The abstract noun "trustworthiness" can be translated with a verbal phrase. AT: "because you are faithful to your covenant and you are worthy of people trusting you" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-abstractnouns]])

# Why should the nations say, "Where is their God?"

This rhetorical question emphasizes that there should be no reason for the nations to say what they say. This question can be translated as a statement. AT: "The people of the nations should not be able to say, 'Where is their God?'" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-rquestion]])

# Where is their God?

The people of other nations use this question to mock the people of Israel and to express that they do not see Yahweh helping them. This question can be translated as a statement. AT: "Your God is not here to help you." (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-rquestion]])

# translationWords

* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/yahweh]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/name]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/honor]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/covenantfaith]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/trust]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/nation]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/god]]