# no poor

The nominal adjective "poor" can be stated as an adjective. AT: "no poor people" or "no one who is poor" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-nominaladj]])

# the land that he gives

This refers to the land of Canaan.

# he gives you as an inheritance to possess

The land that Yahweh is giving to his people is spoken of as if it were an inheritance that Yahweh is giving them. (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metaphor]])

# if only you diligently listen to the voice of Yahweh your God

Here the metonym "voice of Yahweh" refers to what Yahweh himself says. AT: "if only you are careful to obey what Yahweh your God says" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metonymy]])

# you will lend ... you will not borrow

The word "money" is understood. You can make the full meaning of this statement clear. AT: "you will lend money ... you will not borrow money" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-ellipsis]])

# to many nations ... over many nations

Here "nations" represents the people. AT: "to the people of many nations ... over the people of many nations" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metonymy]])

# you will rule over many nations, but they will not rule over you

Here "rule over" means to be financially superior. This means basically the same thing as the previous part of the sentence. (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-parallelism]])

# translationWords

* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/yahweh]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/bless]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/inherit]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/possess]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/voice]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/god]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/command]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/promise]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/nation]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/ruler]]