# General Information:

Jesus sends Peter and John to prepare for the Passover meal. Verse 7 gives background information about the event. (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/writing-background]])

# The day of unleavened bread

"The day of bread without yeast." This was the day the Jews would take all bread made with yeast out of their homes. Then they would celebrate the Festival of Unleavened Bread for seven days.

# the Passover lamb must be sacrificed

Each family or group of people would kill a lamb and eat it together, so many lambs were killed. This can be stated in active form. AT: "people had to kill a lamb for their Passover meal" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-explicit]] and [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-activepassive]])

# prepare

This is a general word meaning "make ready." Jesus was not necessarily telling Peter and John to do all the cooking.

# so that we may eat it

Jesus was including Peter and John when he said "we." Peter and John would be part of the group of the disciples that would eat the meal. (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-inclusive]])

# you want us to make preparations

The word "us" does not include Jesus. Jesus would not be part of the group that would prepare the meal. (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-exclusive]])

# make preparations

"make preparations for the meal" or "prepare the meal"

# translationWords

* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/unleavenedbread]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/passover]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/lamb]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/sacrifice]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/send]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/names/peter]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/names/johntheapostle]]