# General Information:

Jesus speaks directly to Simon.

# Simon, Simon

Jesus said his name twice to show that what he was about to say to him was very important.

# to have you, that he might sift you

The word "you" refers to all of the apostles. Languages that have different forms of "you" should use the plural form. (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-you]])

# sift you as wheat

This means that Satan wanted to test the disciples to find something wrong. AT: "test you like someone passes grain through a sieve" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metaphor]])

# But I have prayed for you

The word "you" here refers specifically to Simon. Languages that have different forms of you should use the singular form. (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-you]])

# that your faith may not fail

This can be stated in positive form. AT: "that you will continue to have faith" or "that you will continue to trust me"

# After you have turned back again

"Turned back again" is a metonymy for "repented". AT: "After you start following me again" or "After you start serving me again" (See: rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metonymy).

# strengthen your brothers

"encourage your brothers to be strong in their faith" or "help your brothers believe in me"

# your brothers

This refers to the other disciples. AT: "your fellow believers" or "the other disciples"

# translationWords

* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/names/peter]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/satan]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/winnow]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/wheat]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/pray]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/faith]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/brother]]