# Connecting Statement:

Jesus finishes speaking with his disciples.

# what is written about me

This can be stated in active form. AT: "what a prophet wrote about me in the scriptures" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-activepassive]])

# must be fulfilled

The apostles would have understood that God would cause everything written in the scriptures to happen. AT: "God will fulfill" or "God will cause to happen" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-activepassive]])

# He was counted with the lawless ones

Here Jesus is quoting the scriptures. This can be stated in active form. AT: "People counted him as a member of the group of lawless men" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-activepassive]])

# the lawless ones

"those who break the law" or "the criminals"

# For what is predicted about me is being fulfilled

Possible meanings are 1) "For what the prophet predicted about me is about to happen" or 2) "For my life is coming to an end" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-activepassive]])

# they said

This refers to at least two of Jesus' apostles.

# It is enough

Possible meanings are 1) "That is enough swords" or 2) "That is enough talk about this." When Jesus said that they should buy swords, he was mainly telling them about the danger they would all face. He may not have really wanted them to buy swords and fight.

# translationWords

* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/written]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/fulfill]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/lawful]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/lord]]