# General Information:

It is now the next day and Jesus is brought before the council.

# As soon as it was day

"At dawn the next morning"

# They led him into the council

Possible meanings are 1) "The elders had Jesus brought into the council" or 2) "The guards led Jesus into the council of the elders." Some languages may avoid saying who led him by using the pronoun "they" or by using a passive verb: "Jesus was led into the council" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-activepassive]])

# and said

This can be translated as a new sentence. AT: "The elders said to Jesus"

# If you are the Christ, tell us

"Tell us if you are the Christ"

# If I tell you ... if I ask you

Jesus is saying that it did not matter whether he spoke or asked them to speak, they would not respond correctly. These two phrases together express Jesus' attitude that the council was not really looking for the truth.

# If I tell you, you will not believe

This is the first of two hypothetical statements by Jesus. It was a way for Jesus to respond without giving them a reason to say that he was guilty of blasphemy. Your language may have a way of indicating that the action has not actually happened. (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-hypo]])

# if I ask you, you will not answer

This is the second hypothetical statement. It was a way for Jesus to rebuke them without giving them a reason to convict him. Your language may have a way of indicating that the action has not actually happened. (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-hypo]])

# translationWords

* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/elder]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/chiefpriests]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/scribe]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/council]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/christ]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/believe]]