# Connecting Statement:

Jesus continues speaking to the council.

# from now on

"from this day" or "starting from today"

# the Son of Man

Jesus uses this phrase to refer to himself. AT: "I, the Son of Man," (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-123person]])

# seated at the right hand of the power of God

To sit at the "right hand of God" is a symbolic action of receiving great honor and authority from God. AT: "seated in the place of honor beside the power of God" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/translate-symaction]])

# the power of God

"the all-powerful God." Here "power" refers to his supreme authority. (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metonymy]])

# Then you are the Son of God?

The council asked this question because they wanted Jesus to explicitly confirm their understanding that he was saying he was the Son of God. AT: "So when you said that, did you mean that you are the Son of God?" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-explicit]])

# Son of God

This is an important title for Jesus. (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/guidelines-sonofgodprinciples]])

# You say that I am

"Yes, it is just like you say"

# Why do we still need a witness?

They use a question for emphasis. AT: "We have no further need for witnesses!" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-rquestion]])

# heard from his own mouth

The phrase "his own mouth" refers to his speech. AT: "heard him say that he believes he is the Son of God" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metonymy]])

# translationWords

* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/sonofman]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/righthand]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/power]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/god]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/sonofgod]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/testimony]]