# General Information:

This is the beginning of a new part of the story that contains several accounts of Jesus healing people. This theme continues through [Matthew 9:35](../09/35.md). (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/writing-newevent]])

# When Jesus had come down from the hill, large crowds followed him

"After Jesus came down from the hill, a large crowd followed him." The crowd may have included both people who had been with him on the mountain and people who had not been with him.

# Behold

The word "behold" alerts us to a new person in the story. Your language may have a way of doing this.

# a leper

"a man who had leprosy" or "a man who had a skin disease"

# bowed before him

This is a sign of humble respect before Jesus. (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/translate-symaction]])

# if you are willing

"if you want to" or "if you desire." The leper knew that Jesus had the power to heal him, but he did not know if Jesus would want to touch him.

# you can make me clean

Here "clean" means to be healed and to be able to live in the community again. AT: "you can heal me" or "please heal me" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-idiom]])

# Be clean

By saying this, Jesus healed the man. (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-imperative]])

# Immediately

"Right away"

# he was cleansed of his leprosy

The result of Jesus saying "Be clean" was that the man was healed. This can be stated in active form. AT: "he was well" or "the leprosy left him" or "the leprosy ended" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-activepassive]])