# under my roof

This is an idiom that refers to inside the house. AT: "into my house" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-idiom]])

# say the word

Here "word" represents a command. AT: "give the command" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metonymy]])

# will be healed

This can be stated in active form. AT: "will become well" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-activepassive]])

# who is placed under authority

This can be stated in active form. AT: "who is under the authority of someone else" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-activepassive]])

# under authority ... under me

To be "under" someone means to be less important and to obey the commands of someone more important. (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-idiom]])

# soldiers

"skilled fighters"

# Truly I say to you

"I tell you the truth." This phrase adds emphasis to what Jesus says next.

# I have not found anyone with such faith in Israel

Jesus' hearers would have thought that the Jews in Israel, who claim to be children of God, would have greater faith than anyone. Jesus is saying they are wrong and that the centurion's faith was greater. (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-explicit]])

# translationWords

* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/centurion]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/lordgod]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/worthy]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/word]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/heal]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/authority]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/warrior]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/amazed]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/amen]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/faith]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/israel]]