# you

Here "you" is plural and refers to "those who were following him" in [Matthew 8:10](./08.md). (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-you]])

# from the east and the west

Using the opposites "east" and "west" is a way of saying "everywhere." AT: "from everywhere" or "from far away in every direction" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-merism]])

# recline at the table

People in that culture would lie down beside the table while eating. This phrase indicates that all those at the table are family and close friends. The joy in the kingdom of God is frequently spoken of as if the people there were feasting. AT: "live as family and friends" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metonymy]])

# in the kingdom of heaven

Here "kingdom of heaven" refers to God's rule as king. The phrase "kingdom of heaven" is used only in the book of Matthew. If possible, keep "heaven" in your translation. AT: "when our God in heaven shows that he is king" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metonymy]])

# the sons of the kingdom will be thrown

This can be stated in active form. AT: "God will throw the sons of the kingdom" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-activepassive]])

# the sons of the kingdom

The phrase "sons of" is a metonym, referring to the unbelieving Jews of the kingdom of Judea. There is also irony here because the "sons" will be thrown out while the strangers will be welcomed. AT: "those who should have allowed God to rule over them" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metonymy]] and [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-irony]])

# the outer darkness

This expression refers to the eternal destiny of those who reject God. AT: "the dark place away from God" or "hell" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metonymy]])

# weeping and grinding of teeth

"Grinding of teeth" here is a symbolic act, representing extreme sadness and suffering. AT: "weeping and showing their extreme suffering." (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/translate-symaction]]).

# so may it be done for you

This can be stated in active form. AT: "so I will do it for you" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-activepassive]])

# the servant was healed

This can be stated in active form. AT: "Jesus healed the servant" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-activepassive]])

# at that very hour

"at the exact time Jesus said he would heal the servant"

# translationWords

* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/names/abraham]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/names/isaac]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/names/jacob]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/kingdomofgod]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/son]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/darkness]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/centurion]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/believe]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/hour]]