# Connecting Statement:

Here the scene shifts to later that evening and tells of Jesus healing more people and casting out demons.

# General Information:

In verse 17, Matthew quotes the prophet Isaiah to show that Jesus' healing ministry was a fulfillment of prophecy.

# When evening had come

Because Jews did not work or travel on the Sabbath, "evening" may imply after the Sabbath. They waited until evening to bring people to Jesus. You do not need to mention the Sabbath unless you need to avoid wrong meaning. (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-explicit]])

# many who were possessed by demons

This can be stated in active form. AT: "many people whom demons possessed" or "many people whom demons controlled" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-activepassive]])

# He drove out the spirits with a word

Here "word" stands for a command. AT: "He commanded the spirits to leave" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metonymy]])

# was fulfilled that which had been spoken by Isaiah the prophet

This can be stated in active form. AT: "Jesus fulfilled the prophecy that the prophet Isaiah had spoken to the people of Israel" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-activepassive]])

# took our sickness and bore our diseases

Matthew is quoting the prophet Isaiah. These two phrases mean basically the same thing and emphasize that he healed all of our diseases. AT: "healed those who were sick and made them well" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-parallelism]])

# translationWords

* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/demonpossessed]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/castout]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/spirit]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/heal]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/fulfill]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/names/isaiah]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/prophet]]