# Connecting Statement:

Here the author returns to the theme of Jesus healing people. This begins an account of Jesus healing two demon-possessed men.

# to the other side

"to the other side of the Sea of Galilee"

# country of the Gadarenes

The Gadarenes were named after the town of Gadara. (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/translate-names]])

# two men who were possessed by demons

This can be stated in active form. AT: "two men whom demons possessed" or "two men whom demons were controlling" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-activepassive]])

# They ... were very violent, so that no traveler could pass that way

The demons that were controlling these two men were so dangerous that no one could go through that area.

# Behold

This marks the beginning of another event in the larger story. Your language may have a way of showing this.

# What do we have to do with you, Son of God?

The demons use a question but they are being hostile toward Jesus. AT: "Do not bother us, Son of God!" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-rquestion]])

# Son of God

This is an important title for Jesus, which describes his relationship to God. (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/guidelines-sonofgodprinciples]])

# Have you come here to torment us before the set time?

Again, the demons use a question in a hostile way. AT: "You should not disobey God by punishing us before the specific time God has set when he will punish us!" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-rquestion]])

# translationWords

* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/demon]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/tomb]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/sonofgod]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/time]]