# General Information:

These verses interrupt to give information about Herod.

# Now Herod

This phrase marks a break in the main story line. Here Luke tells background information about Herod. (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/writing-background]])

# Herod the tetrarch

This refers to Herod Antipas, who was the ruler of one-fourth of Israel.

# perplexed

unable to understand, confused

# it was said by some

This can be stated in active form. AT: "some people said" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-activepassive]])

still others that one of the prophets of long ago had risen

The word "said is understood from the previous phrase. AT: "still others say that one of the prophets of long ago had risen" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-ellipsis]])

# I beheaded John. Who is this

Herod assumes that it is impossible for John to rise from the dead. This can be stated clearly. AT: "It cannot be John because I had his head cut off. So who is this man" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-explicit]])

# I beheaded John

Herod's soldiers would have carried out executions. AT: "I commanded my soldiers to cut off John's head" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-explicit]])

# translationWords

* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/names/herodantipas]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/tetrarch]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/names/johnthebaptist]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/raise]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/death]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/names/elijah]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/prophet]]