# righteous people and wicked

This refers to all people, emphasizing the two opposites of righteous and wicked people. (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-merism]])

# wicked ... the good ... the clean and the unclean

All of these phrases refer to people. AT: "wicked people ... good people ... clean people and unclean people" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-nominaladj]])

# the clean and the unclean

This refers to all people, emphasizing the two opposites of clean and unclean people. (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-merism]])

# the clean

A person who is acceptable for God's purposes is spoken of as if the person were physically clean. (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metaphor]])

# the unclean

A person who is not acceptable for God's purposes is spoken of as if the person were physically unclean. (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metaphor]])

# the one who sacrifices and the one who does not sacrifice

This refers to all people, emphasizing the two opposites of those who sacrifice and those who do not. (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-merism]])

# As good people ... so also will the sinner

This refers to all people, emphasizing the two opposites of good people and sinners. (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-merism]])

# will the sinner ... will the man who fears to make an oath

It is understood that this refers to people dying. AT: "the sinner will die ... the man who fears to make an oath will die" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-ellipsis]])

# the one who swears ... so also will the man who fears to make an oath

This refers to all people, emphasizing the two opposites of those who swear oaths and those who do not.(See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-merism]])