# under the sun

This refers to things that are done on earth. See how you translated this in [Ecclesiastes 1:3](../01/01.md). AT: "on the earth" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-idiom]])

# The race does not belong to ... The battle does not belong to

"The race is not always won by ... The battle is not always won by"

# Bread

Here "Bread" refers to food in general. AT: "Food" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metonymy]])

# time and chance affect them all

This is an idiom. AT: "what happens and when it happens affect them all" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-idiom]])

# affect them all

"affects all these things." Here the words "them all" refer to race, battle, bread, riches, and favor.

# when his time will come

This refers to when a person dies. AT: "when he will die" or "when the time of his death will come" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-euphemism]])

# fish are caught ... birds are caught ... the children of human beings are ensnared

This speaks of people dying when they do not expect it, in the same way that people catch animals and kill them when they do not expect it. (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-simile]])

# the children of human beings are ensnared by evil times

This can be stated in active form. Also, this speaks of people experiencing disaster and unfortunate times as if they were being imprisoned or trapped. AT: "evil times are coming upon the children of human beings" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-activepassive]] and [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metaphor]])

# that suddenly fall upon them

This is an idiom. AT: "at times when they do not expect them to happen" or "that suddenly happen to them" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-idiom]])

# translationWords

* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/understand]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/favor]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/time]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/death]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/snare]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/evil]]