# have nothing but mockery for me

The abstract noun "mockery" can be expressed with the verb "mock." AT: "only mock me" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-abstractnouns]])

# whose fathers I would have refused to allow to work beside the dogs of my flock

This shows how much he despised those fathers. They were not even good enough to be with his dogs. AT: "whose fathers I despised and would not have allowed to work beside the dogs of my flock" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-explicit]])

# the dogs of my flock

The dogs' relationship to the flock can be stated clearly. AT: "the dogs that guarded my flock" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-explicit]])

# Indeed, the strength of their fathers' hands, how could it have helped me ... perished?

Job uses this question to mock the weakness of those men. AT: "The strength of their fathers' hands could not have helped me ... perished." (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-rquestion]])

# men in whom the strength of their mature age had perished

Their strength perishing is a metaphor that represents no longer being strong but weak. The phrase "mature age" refers to them being old. AT: "men who had become old and had no strength" or "men who had become old and weak" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metaphor]])

# They were thin from poverty and hunger

The word "They" refers to the fathers of the young mockers.

# They were thin from poverty and hunger

The abstract noun "poverty" can be expressed with the word "poor." The abstract noun "hunger" can be expressed with the words "hungry" or "starving." AT: "They were very thin because they were poor and starving" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-abstractnouns]])

# they gnawed at the dry ground

Possible meanings are that 1) "dry ground" is a metonym for the dry roots that grow in the ground. AT: "they chewed on the dry roots they found in the ground" or 2) "gnawed at the dried ground" is a metonym for eating whatever they could find in the dry ground. (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metonymy]])

# translationWords

* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/mock]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/works]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/flock]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/father]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/hand]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/perish]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/darkness]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/desert]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/desolate]]