# Connecting Statement:

Job continues to talk about the fathers of the mockers.

# brayed like donkeys

Job speaks of the men crying out in hunger as if they were wild donkeys making a loud noise. AT: "cried out like wild donkeys because they were hungry" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-simile]])

# they gathered together under the nettles

"Nettles" are bushes with sharp thorns. This implies that they did not have a home.

# They were the sons of fools

Here "were the sons of fools" represents having the characteristics fools. AT: "They were like fools" or "they were fools" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metaphor]])

# indeed, sons of nameless people

The word "indeed" shows that what follows strengthens the previous thought. Here "sons of nameless people" represents having the characteristics of nameless people. AT: "indeed, they were nameless people" or "indeed, they were worthless" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metaphor]])

# nameless people

Here being "nameless" represents having no honor or respect. It means that they are worthless. AT: "worthless people" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metaphor]])

# They were driven out of the land with whips

This can be stated in active form. Possible meanings are 1) the idea of whips implies that they were being treated like criminals. AT: "People treated them like criminals and forced them to leave the land" or 2) people actually used whips to force them out. AT: "People whipped them and forced them to leave the land" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metonymy]])

# They were driven out of the land

Here "the land" refers to the land where they lived before they were forced to go out to the wilderness.