# Connecting Statement:

Job continues to speak about the people who were mocking him.

# General Information:

Job speaks about the mockers treating him cruelly as if they were a mob and an army attacking him. (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metaphor]])

# Upon my right hand rise the rabble

"the rabble rise upon my right hand." Possible meanings are 1) rising upon Job's right hand represents attacking his strength. AT: "Gangs of young people attack my strength" or 2) rising upon Job's right hand represents attacking his honor. AT: "Mobs attack my honor" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metonymy]] and [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metaphor]])

# they drive me away

"they force me to run away"

# pile up against me their siege mounds

Armies would pile up mounds of dirt along a city's wall in order to climb over the wall and attack the city. Job speaks of the mockers preparing to attack him as if they were doing that. AT: "prepare to attack me like an army that prepares to attack a city" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metaphor]])

# They destroy my path

This represents keeping Job from escaping their attack. AT: "They prevent me from escaping from them" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metaphor]])

# they push forward disaster for me

Here "push forward disaster" represents trying to make disaster happen. AT: "they try to make disaster happen to me" or "they try to destroy me" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metaphor]])

# men who have no one to hold them back

Here "hold them back" represents stopping them from doing something. AT: "men who have no one to stop them from attacking me" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metaphor]])

# translationWords

* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/righthand]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/raise]]