# Connecting Statement:

Job continues speaking to God.

# does no one reach out with his hand to beg for help when he falls? Does no one in trouble call out for help?

Job uses these questions to justify himself for crying out to God for help. AT: "Everyone reaches out with his hand to beg for help when he falls. Everyone who is in trouble calls out for help." or "I have fallen, and so God should not think I am doing wrong when I beg for his help. I am in trouble, so of course I call out for help!" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-rquestion]])

# does no one reach out with his hand to beg for help when he falls? Does no one in trouble call out for help?

Some versions interpret these questions as Job complaining that God has reached out with his hand to harm Job when Job was in trouble and crying out for help. AT: "Surely no one would reach out with his hand against someone who falls and calls out for help." (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-rquestion]])

# Did not I weep ... trouble? Did I not grieve ... man?

Job uses these questions to remind God of how Job had done good to others. A: "You know that I wept ... trouble, and I grieved ... man!" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-rquestion]])

# When I looked for good, then evil came

Looking for good represents hoping for good things, and evil coming represents evil things happening. (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metaphor]])

# I waited for light ... darkness came

Here "light" represents God's blessing and favor and "darkness" represents trouble and suffering. AT: "I waited for the light of God's blessing, but instead I experienced the darkness of suffering" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metaphor]])

# translationWords

* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/evil]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/light]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/darkness]]