# Connecting Statement:

Jesus continues to rebuke the religious leaders because of their hypocrisy.

# I am sending you prophets and wise men and scribes

Sometimes the present tense is used to show that someone will do something very soon. AT: "I will send prophets, wise men, and scribes to you"

# upon you will come all the righteous blood that has been shed on the earth

The phrase "upon you will come" is an idiom that means to receive punishment. To shed blood is a metonym meaning to kill people, so "righteous blood that has been shed on the earth" represents righteous people who have been killed. AT: "God will punish you for the murders of all the righteous people" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-idiom]] and [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metonymy]])

# from the blood ... to the blood

Here the word "blood" represents a person being killed. AT: "from the murder ... to the murder" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metonymy]])

# Abel ... Zechariah

Abel was the first victim of murder, and Zechariah was probably thought to be the last to be murdered, by Jews in the temple. These two men represent all the murdered righteous people. (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-synecdoche]])

# Zechariah

This Zechariah was not the father of John the Baptist.

# whom you killed

Jesus does not mean the people to whom he is speaking actually killed Zechariah. He means their ancestors did.

# Truly I say to you

"I tell you the truth." This adds emphasis to what Jesus says next.

# translationWords

* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/send]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/prophet]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/wise]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/scribe]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/crucify]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/synagogue]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/bloodshed]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/abel]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/righteous]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/zechariahot]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/sanctuary]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/altar]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/amen]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/generation]]