# Connecting Statement:

Jesus mourns over the people of Jerusalem because they reject every messenger that God sends to them.

# Jerusalem, Jerusalem

Jesus speaks to the people of Jerusalem as though they were the city itself. (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-apostrophe]] and [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metonymy]])

# those who are sent to you

This can be stated in active form. AT: "those whom God sends to you" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-activepassive]])

# your children

Jesus is speaking to Jerusalem as if it is a woman and the people are her children. AT: "your people" or "your inhabitants" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metaphor]])

# just as a hen gathers her chicks under her wings

This is a simile that emphasizes Jesus' love for the people and how he wanted to take care of them. (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-simile]])

# hen

a female chicken. You can translate with any bird that protects her children under her wing. (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/translate-unknown]])

# your house is left to you desolate

"God will leave your house, and it will be empty"

# your house

Possible meanings are 1) "the city of Jerusalem" or 2) "the temple." (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metonymy]])

# I say to you

This adds emphasis to what Jesus says next.

# Blessed is he who comes in the name of the Lord

Here "in the name" means "in the power" or "as a representative." See how you translated this in [Matthew 21:9](../21/09.md). AT: "He who comes in the power of the Lord is blessed" or "He who comes as the representative of the Lord will be blessed" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metonymy]])

# translationWords

* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/jerusalem]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/prophet]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/stone]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/house]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/bless]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/name]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/lordgod]]