# General Information:

Parallelism is common in Hebrew poetry. (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/writing-poetry]] and [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-parallelism]])

# For the chief musician

"This is for the director of music to use in worship"

# A psalm of David

Possible meanings are 1) David wrote the psalm or 2) the psalm is about David or 3) the psalm is in the style of David's psalms.

# Let God arise

God beginning to act is spoke of as if he stands up. AT: "Let God begin to act" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metaphor]])

# let his enemies be scattered

This can be stated in active form. AT: "let God chase away his enemies" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-activepassive]])

# As smoke is driven away, so drive them away

God's enemies are spoken of as if they are smoke that is easily blown away by the wind. This can be stated in active form. AT: "Drive them away as the wind blows away smoke" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metaphor]] and [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-activepassive]])

# as wax melts before the fire

God's enemies are spoken of as if they are wax that is easily melted by a fire. AT: "cause them to disappear as wax melts before a fire" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metaphor]])

# the wicked

This refers to the wicked people in general. (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-nominaladj]])

# the righteous

This refers to the righteous people in general. (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-nominaladj]])

# rejoice and be happy

These means the same thing and emphasizes the amount of joy they feel. (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-doublet]])

# translationWords

* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/psalm]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/david]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/god]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/raise]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/fire]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/evil]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/perish]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/righteous]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/exult]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/rejoice]]