# to his name

This refers to God. AT: "to him" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metonymy]])

# the one who rides through the plains

God's presence among people is spoken of as if he rides on the earth in a horse or chariot. (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metaphor]])

# A father of the fatherless

God is spoken of as a compassionate God who acts like a father to orphans. AT: "One who acts like a father to children who have no parents" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metaphor]])

# a judge of the widows

God is spoken of as a merciful God who protects widows. AT: "a protector of widows" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metaphor]])

# God puts the lonely into families

God is spoken of as if he places lonely people into families. "God provides families for those who have no one to live with" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metaphor]])

# he brings out the prisoners with singing

God is spoken of as the one who leads prisoners out of their confinement. AT: "God frees prisoners and makes them sing with happiness" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metaphor]])

# the rebellious

This nominal adjective refers to rebellious people and can be translated with either an adjective or a noun. AT: "rebellious people" or "people who rebel against him" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-nominaladj]])

# a parched land

God's punishment of the rebellious is spoken of as if he forces them to live in a hot desert land. AT: "a very hot and dry land" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metaphor]])

# translationWords

* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/praise]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/name]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/jordanriver]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/yahweh]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/rejoice]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/judgeposition]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/holy]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/life]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/prison]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/rebel]]