# General Information:

David continues the story of the journey of the Israelites through the desert. In this part of the story, the Israelites are victorious in war over their enemies.

# those who announced them ... army

The large number of people told the Lord's message to others. They are spoken of as if there were a large army. Since this phrase is feminine, some versions translate it as, "the women who announced them ... army." (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metaphor]])

# Kings of armies ... why did you do this?

The information in [Psalms 68:12-13](./011.md) has been rearranged so its meaning can be more easily understood. (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/translate-versebridge]])

# Kings of armies flee, they flee

The kings represent themselves and their entire armies. It is understood that they flee because they are defeated by Israel's army. AT: "Kings and their armies flee from us because they are defeated" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-synecdoche]] and [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-explicit]])

# plunder

things that are taken from the defeated army and brought to the victorious army's home.

# doves covered with silver ... gold

This means that some of the plunder is very valuable because it is covered with precious metals.

# When some of you people stayed among the sheepfolds, why did you do this?

This question is used to rebuke the people who did not participate in the battle. AT: "Those who stayed among the sheepfolds should not have stayed; they should have gone to the battle." (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-rquestion]])

# translationWords

* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/lord]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/king]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/dove]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/gold]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/peoplegroup]]