# General Information:

Parallelism is common in Hebrew poetry. (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/writing-poetry]] and [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-parallelism]])

# General Information:

This psalm is a prayer for help.

# For the chief musician

"This is for the director of music to use in worship"

# on stringed instruments

"people should play stringed instruments with this song"

# A maschil

This may refer to a style of music. See how you translated this in [Psalms 32:1](../032/001.md)

# Ziphites

people from the city of Ziph in the Judean mountains, southeast of Hebron. (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/translate-names]])

# Does David not hide himself with us?

This question is used to show that this is something important that Saul should know. AT: "David is hiding himself with us." (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-rquestion]])

# Save me, God, by your name

Here God's name represents his character. It may represent specifically his power or his justice. AT: "Save me, God, by your power" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metonymy]])

# judge me in your might

Judging David here represents showing people that David is not guilty. When God uses his might to save David, people will know that God has judged him as not guilty. AT: "In your might, show people that I am not guilty" or "Show people that I am not guilty by using your power to rescue me" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metonymy]])

# give ear to the words

Giving one's ear represents listening. AT: "listen to the words" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metonymy]])

# the words of my mouth

Here the speaker is represented by his mouth. AT: "my words" or "what I am saying to you" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-synecdoche]])

# have risen up against me

Rising up against someone represents preparing to attack him or actually attacking him. AT: "have prepared to attack me" or "are attacking me" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metonymy]])

# pitiless men

"men who have no mercy"

# have sought after my life

Seeking after someone's life represents trying to kill him. AT: "have tried to kill me" or "want to kill me" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metonymy]])

# they have not set God before them

Setting God before them represents paying attention to God. AT: "they do not pay attention to God" or "they ignore God" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metonymy]])

# translationWords

* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/david]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/saul]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/save]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/god]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/name]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/judge]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/mighty]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/pray]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/word]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/raise]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/selah]]