# Connecting Statement:

After healing the man who could not walk, Peter talks to the people.

# General Information:

The phrase "in the porch that is called Solomon's" makes it clear that they were not inside the temple where only the priests were allowed to enter.

# General Information:

Here the words "us" and "we" refer to Peter and John but not to the crowd to whom Peter is talking. (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-exclusive]])

# the porch that is called Solomon's

"Solomon's Porch." This was a covered walkway that consisted of rows of pillars that supported a roof, and which people named after king Solomon.

# greatly marveling

"extremely surprised"

# When Peter saw this

Here the word "this" refers to the amazement of the people.

# You men of Israel

"Fellow Israelites." Peter was addressing the crowd.

# why do you marvel?

Peter asks this question to emphasize that they should not be surprised by what had happened. AT: "you should not be surprised" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-rquestion]])

# Why do you fix your eyes on us, as if we had made him to walk by our own power or godliness?

Peter asks this question to emphasize that the people should not think that he and John had healed the man by their own abilities. This could be written as two statements. AT: "Do not fix your eyes on us. We did not make him walk by our own power or godliness" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-rquestion]])

# fix your eyes on us

This means that they looked intently at them without stopping. AT: "stare at us" or "look at us" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-idiom]])

# translationWords

* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/peter]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/johntheapostle]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/solomon]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/amazed]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/israel]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/power]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/godly]]