# There was a certain Jew

This introduces Mordecai as a new character in the story. (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/writing-participants]])

# Susa

Translate the name of this city as in [Esther 1:2](../01/01.md). (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/translate-names]])

# son of Jair son of Shimei son of Kish

"Jair," "Shimei," and "Kish" are men from whom "Mordecai" is the male descendant. (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/translate-names]])

# Benjamite

"of the tribe of Benjamin"

# He had been taken away ... king of Babylonia carried away

This background information explains how Mordecai came to live in Susa. This can be stated in active form. AT: "Nebuchadnezzar king of Babylonia carried him and other exiles away along with Jehoiachin, king of Judah" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/writing-background]] and [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-activepassive]])

# He had been taken away from Jerusalem

The Hebrew text leaves unclear who is being spoken of here. It is perhaps Kish, who seems to have been the great-grandfather of Mordecai. If it was Mordecai himself, then he would be extremely old at the time of the events concerning Esther. Many modern versions leave this matter unclear. A few versions, including the UDB, choose to assume that it was Mordecai who had been taken away from Jerusalem.

# Jehoiachin, king of Judah

(See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/translate-names]])

# translationWords

* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/jew]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/mordecai]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/benjamin]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/jerusalem]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/exile]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/jehoiachin]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/judah]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/nebuchadnezzar]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/babylon]]