# Everyone says ... everyone speaks

The two occurrences of "everyone" are exaggerations, used to emphasize that this is true of very many people. (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-hyperbole]])

# everyone speaks with flattering lips and a double heart

Here "lips" is a metonym for what people say, and "a double heart" is a metaphor for deception. AT: "everyone speaks with flattering words and deception" or "everyone praises people falsely and tells lies" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metonymy]] and [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metaphor]])

# cut off all flattering lips

Here "flattering lips" is a metonym for people who flatter others. Possible meanings are 1) "cut off" is a metaphor for killing. AT: "kill all who flatter others" or 2) "cut off" is a metaphor for stopping something. AT: "stop all those who flatter others" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metaphor]] and [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metonymy]])

# every tongue declaring great things

Here "every tongue" represents every person who declares great things. AT: "every person who boasts" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-synecdoche]])

# With our tongues will we prevail

Here the word "tongues" represents what people say. AT: "We will prevail because of what we say" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metonymy]])

# will we prevail

"we will succeed" or "we will win" or "we will be victorious"

# When our lips speak

Here the "lips" represents the people who speak. AT: "When we speak" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-synecdoche]])

# who can be master over us?

This rhetorical question is asked to emphasize that they believed no one could rule over them. It can be translated as a statement. AT: "no one can rule over us!" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-rquestion]])

# translationWords

* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/word]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/neighbor]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/heart]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/yahweh]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/cutoff]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/tongue]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/lord]]