# General Information:

Yahweh continues to speak about Jerusalem as if the city were his unfaithful wife. The city represents the people who live there. (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metaphor]] and [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metonymy]])

# whom you bore for me

"who were my children"

# you sacrificed them to the images to be devoured as food ... put them into the fire

Here Yahweh does not use a metaphor, but speaks of something that the people of Israel had actually done. They sacrificed their children to pagan idols.

# you sacrificed them to the images to be devoured as food

In these ancient pagan sacrifices, the people believed that the gods would eat the food that they offered to them. This can be stated in active form. AT: "you sacrificed them to the images so that those images could devour them as food" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-explicit]] and [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-activepassive]])

# Are your acts of prostitution a small matter? You slaughtered

Yahweh asks this rhetorical question to emphasize that the woman is acting as if her prostitution was not bad enough and so she decided to sacrifice her children, as well. This can be translated as a statement. AT: "You must think that your acts of prostitution are a small matter, and so you slaughtered" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-rquestion]])

# put them into the fire

It is implicit that she put them into the fire in order to offer them as burnt offerings to her images. AT: "sacrificed them as burnt offerings" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-explicit]])

# naked and bare

These two words mean the same thing. See how you translated this in [Ezekiel 16:7](./06.md). AT: "completely naked" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-doublet]])