# General Information:

Yahweh continues to speak about Jerusalem as if the city were his unfaithful wife. The city represents the people who live there. (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metaphor]] and [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metonymy]])

# See!

The word "see" here alerts us to pay attention to the surprising information that follows.

# I will strike you with my hand

Here "hand" represents power. AT: "I will use my power to strike you" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metonymy]])

# cut off your food

Yahweh speaks of stopping the supply of food as if it were cutting off the food. AT: "stop your food supply" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metaphor]])

# I will hand your life over

Here "life" represents the person. AT: "I will hand you over" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-synecdoche]])

# the daughters of the Philistines

Here Yahweh speaks of the cities of Philistia as if they were the daughters of the Philistines. The cities represent the people who live there. AT: "the Philistine people" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metaphor]] and [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metonymy]])

# translationWords

* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/hand]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/cutoff]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/life]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/adversary]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/names/philistines]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/shame]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/prostitute]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/names/assyria]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/names/chaldeans]]