# General Information:

Yahweh continues to speak about Jerusalem and the people of Israel as his unfaithful wife.

# How sick is your heart ... that you would do all these things, deeds of a shameless prostitute?

Yahweh asks the rhetorical question in order to rebuke Jerusalem. It can be translated as a statement. AT: "Your heart must be very sick ... that you would do all these things, deeds of a shameless prostitute!" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-rquestion]])

# How sick is your heart

Here the word "heart" represents the will and emotions. Yahweh speaks of her inability to control her desires as if her heart were sick. AT: "How weak-willed are you" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metonymy]] and [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metaphor]])

# at the head of every street

Yahweh speaks of the beginning of a street as if it were its head. See how you translated a similar phrase in [Ezekiel 16:25](./25.md). AT: "at the beginning of every street" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metaphor]])

# made your vaulted chamber

Possible meanings are that she built a place where 1) she could worship her idols or 2) she could practice her prostitution. See how you translated this in [Ezekiel 16:24](./23.md).

# translationWords

* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/heart]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/lordyahweh]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/declare]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/works]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/highplaces]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/prostitute]]