# General Information:

Yahweh continues to speak about Jerusalem as if the city were his unfaithful wife. The city represents the people who live there. (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metaphor]] and [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metonymy]])

# Sodom your sister was not even mentioned by your mouth

Here the word "mouth" represents the person who speaks. This can be stated in active form. AT: "You did not even mention your sister Sodom" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-synecdoche]] and [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-activepassive]])

# before your wickedness was revealed

This can be stated in active form. AT: "before you revealed your wickedness" or "before I revealed your wickedness" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-activepassive]])

# you are an object of scorn

This refers to Jerusalem as something people talk badly about.

# the daughters of Edom and to all the daughters of the Philistines

Here Yahweh speaks of the cities of Edom and Philistia as if they were the daughters of Edom and of the Philistines. The cities represent the people who live there. AT: "the Edomite people and to all the Philistine people" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metaphor]] and [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metonymy]])

# despise

"hate"

# this is Yahweh's declaration

Yahweh speaks of himself by name to express the certainty of what he is declaring. See how you translated a similar phrase in [Ezekiel 5:11](../05/11.md). AT: "this is what Yahweh has declared" or "this is what I, Yahweh, have declared" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-123person]])

# translationWords

* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/names/sodom]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/proud]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/evil]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/names/edom]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/names/philistines]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/shame]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/yahweh]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/declare]]