# General Information:

These verses are a break from John's account of his vision. Here he give a warning to the people reading his account.

# If anyone has an ear

Being willing to listen is spoken of as having an ear. See how you translated a similar phrase in [Revelation 2:7](../02/06.md). AT: "Let the one who is willing to listen, listen" or "If you are willing, listen" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metaphor]])

# If anyone is to be taken

This expression means that someone has decided who should be taken. If needed, translators may state clearly who decided it. AT: "If God has decided that someone should be taken" or "If it is God's will that someone should be taken" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-explicit]])

# If anyone is to be taken into captivity

This can be stated in active form. The noun "captivity" can be stated with the verb "capture." AT: "If it is God's will for the enemy to capture a certain person" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-activepassive]] and [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-abstractnouns]])

# into captivity he will go

The noun "captivity" can be stated with the verb "capture." AT: "he will be captured" or "the enemy will capture him" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-abstractnouns]])

# If anyone is to be killed with a sword

This can be stated in active form. AT: "If it is God's will for the enemy to kill a certain person with a sword" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-activepassive]])

# with a sword

A sword represents war. AT: "in war" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metonymy]])

# he will be killed

This can be stated in active form. AT: "the enemy will kill him" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-activepassive]])

# Here is a call for patient endurance and faith for those who are holy

"Those who are holy must endure patiently and be faithful"