# It came about

"It happened." This phrase marks the next event in the story line. (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/writing-newevent]])

# at the top of the road

The word "top" is used here because David went up in elevation and is at the top of a hill. AT: "at the top of the hill" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-explicit]])

# where God used to be worshiped

This can be stated in active form. AT: "where people once worshiped God" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-activepassive]])

# Hushai

This is the name of a man. (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/translate-names]])

# Arkite

This is the name of a people group. (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/translate-names]])

# with his coat torn and earth on his head

This is an act showing shame or repentance. Here the word "earth" means dirt. AT: "He had torn his clothes and put dirt on his head to show that he was very sad" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/translate-symaction]] and [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-synecdoche]])

# you will confuse Ahithophel's advice for me

David is suggest to Hushai that he oppose whatever Ahithopel advises. AT: "you can serve me by by opposing Ahithophel's advice" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-explicit]])

# translationWords

* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/god]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/earth]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/burden]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/absalom]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/servant]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/king]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/counselor]]