# General Information:

The writer continues to use parallelism in each of these verses, conveying a single idea using two different statements to emphasize Job's intense suffering as the grounds for his complaint. (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-parallelism]])

# For the arrows of the Almighty are in me

This is a metaphor for Job's suffering. He compares his many troubles to arrows that that God has shot his body with. AT: "It is as though the Almighty has shot arrows into my body" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metaphor]])

# my spirit drinks up the poison

"my spirit drinks up the arrows' poison." This continues the metaphor of the arrows, by implying that they had tips of poison and that Job feels the pain in his spirit. He speaks of feeling this pain as if his spirit drank the poison. AT: "I feel the pain of their poison in my inner being" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metaphor]])

# the terrors of God have arranged themselves in array against me

Job speaks of the terrible things that have happened to him as if they were soldiers that God had lined up to attack him all at once. AT: "God has caused all the terrible things that could happen to happen to me all at once" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-personification]])

# the terrors of God have arranged themselves in array against me

God causing many things to terrify Job is spoken of as if God's terrors were soldiers lined up to attack Job. AT: "the terrors of God have arranged themselves like soldiers in an army" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metaphor]])

# Does the wild donkey bray in despair when he has grass? Or does the ox low in hunger when it has fodder?

Job poses these rhetorical questions to emphasize that he has a reason to complain. These question can be written as statements. AT: "Just as the wild donkey does not bray in despair when he has grass and as the ox does not low in hunger when he has fodder, I would not complain if I did not have a reason" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-rquestion]])

# bray

the sound a donkey makes

# low

the sound an ox makes

# fodder

animal food

# Can that which has no taste be eaten without salt? Or is there any taste in the white of an egg?

Possible meanings are 1) Job is comparing his displeasure for his circumstances to people's dislike for bland food or 2) Job is comparing his displeasure for his friend's advice to people's dislike for bland food. (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metaphor]])

# Can that which has no taste be eaten without salt? Or is there any taste in the white of an egg?

Job uses these rhetorical questions to emphasize his own displeasure. These questions can be written as a statement. AT: "Tasteless food cannot be eaten without salt, just as there is no taste in the white of an egg." (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-rquestion]])

# Can that which has no taste be eaten

This can be stated in active form. AT: "Can you eat that which has no taste" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-activepassive]])

# translationWords

* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/bowweapon]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/almighty]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/spirit]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/terror]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/god]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/donkey]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible//ox]]