In these verses, Job poses four questions to rebuke his friends and to emphasize that he didn't ask for help from any of them. (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-rquestion]])

## For now ##

Job uses this phrase to introduce the main part of what he is saying.

## you friends are nothing to me ##

"you do not act like my friends"

## and are afraid ##

"and you are afraid that God might do similar things to you." (UDB) Here the UDB makes more explicit the implicit information that the friends are afraid of God punishing them.

## Did I say to you, ‘Give something to me’? ##

AT: "I did not ask any of you for anything."  (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-rquestion]])

## Offer me a gift from your wealth? ##

AT: "I did not ask you to give me money." or "I did not ask you to offer from your wealth a bride on my account." (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-rquestion]])

## Save me from my adversary’s hand? ##

"My adversary's hand" is a metonym that stands for the power of someone who is strongly against Job. AT: "I never asked any of you to rescue me from my enemies" (UDB) (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metonymy]] and [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-rquestion]])

## Ransom me from the hand of my oppressors? ##

"Hand of my oppressors" is a metonym that stands for the power of the men who are treating Job badly. AT: "I did not ask you to rescue me from those who treated me badly." (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metonymy]] and [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-rquestion]])

## Ransom me ##

"Rescue me"