# Now

This word is used by Job to introduce new information.

# please look

The verb "to look" is in second person plural form. (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-you]])

# I would not lie to your face

The word "your" refers to Job's friends. Here his friends are represented by their faces to emphasize that they are looking at him. AT: "I would not lie to you while I am looking at you" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-synecdoche]])

# Relent, I beg you

"Please be merciful to me" or "Stop speaking like this, I beg you"

# let there be no injustice with you

This can be stated in positive form. AT: "treat me fairly" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-doublenegatives]])

# Indeed, relent, for my cause is just

"Indeed, change the way you are treating me, for I am right in this"

# Is there evil on my tongue?

"Do I say wicked things?" Job uses this question to rebuke his friends and to emphasize that he is not wicked. This question can be written as a statement. AT: "I do not say wicked things." (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-rquestion]])

# on my tongue

Here Job's speech is represented by his "tongue." AT: "in my speech" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metonymy]])

# Cannot my mouth detect malicious things?

Job uses this question to rebuke his friends and to emphasize that he can tell the difference between right and wrong. Here Job refers to himself by his "mouth" to emphasize his speech. This question can be written as a statement. AT: "I know what is right to say and what is wrong to say." (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-rquestion]] and [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-synecdoche]])