# A man of God came out of Judah by the word of Yahweh to Bethel

The implied information is that Yahweh sent the man of God to Bethel. This can be stated in active form. AT: "Yahweh sent a man of God from Judah to Bethel" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-explicit]] and [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-activepassive]])

# A man of God

This is another title for a prophet. AT: "A prophet"

# came out of Judah

"came from Judah"

# the word of Yahweh

"the message of Yahweh" or "Yahweh's message"

# He cried against the altar

Here "He" refers to the man of God.

# cried against the altar

This means he prophesied toward the altar in a loud and condemning voice. AT: "prophesied loudly toward the altar" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-idiom]])

# Altar, altar

The prophet spoke to the altar as if it were a person who could hear him. He said this twice for emphasis. (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-apostrophe]] and [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-personification]])

# a son named Josiah will be born to the family of David

Here the "family of David" refers to the descendants of David. This can be stated in active form. AT: "a descendant of David will have a son named Josiah" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metonymy]] and [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-activepassive]])

# they will burn

Here "they" refers to Josiah and the people with him.

# the altar will be split apart, and the ashes on it will be poured out

This can be stated in active form. AT: "Yahweh will split the altar apart and the ashes on it will fall to the ground" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-activepassive]])

# translationWords

* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/manofgod]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/kingdomofjudah]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/wordofgod]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/bethel]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/jeroboam]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/altar]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/incense]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/yahweh]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/son]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/josiah]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/david]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/sacrifice]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/priest]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/highplaces]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/sign]]