# General Information:

A new part of the story begins here and continues through the end of the chapter. The writer tells about Herod's attempt to kill the new King of the Jews.

# Bethlehem of Judea

"the town of Bethlehem in the province of Judea"

# in the days of Herod the king

"when Herod was king there"

# Herod

This refers to Herod the Great.

# learned men

"men who studied the stars"

# from the east

"from a country far east of Judea"

# Where is he who was born King of the Jews?

The men knew from studying the stars that the one who would become king had been born. They were trying to learn where he was. AT: "A baby who will become the king of the Jews has been born. Where is he?"

# his star

They were not saying that the baby was the rightful owner of the star. AT: "the star that tells about him" or "the star that is associated with his birth"

# in the east

"as it came up in the east" or "while we were in our country"

# worship

Possible meanings are 1) they intended to worship the baby as divine, or 2) they wanted to honor him as a human king. If your language has a word that includes both meanings, you should consider using it here.

# he was troubled

"he was worried." Herod was worried that this baby would replace him as king.

# all Jerusalem

Here "Jerusalem" refers to the people. Also, "all" means "many." Matthew is exaggerating to emphasize how many people were worried. AT: "many of the people in Jerusalem" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metonymy]] and [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-hyperbole]])

# translationWords

* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/jesus]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/bethlehem]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/judea]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/herodthegreat]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/learnedmen]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/jerusalem]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/kingofthejews]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/worship]]