# General Information:

In verse 15, Matthew quotes the prophet Hosea to show that the Christ would spend time in Egypt.

# they had departed

"the learned men had departed"

# appeared to Joseph in a dream

"came to Joseph while he was dreaming"

# Get up, take ... flee ... Remain ... you

God is speaking to Joseph, so these should all be singular forms. (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-you]])

# until I tell you

The full meaning of this statement can be made explicit. AT: "until I tell you it is safe to come back" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-explicit]])

# I tell you

Here "I" refers to God. The angel is speaking for God.

# He remained

It is implied that Joseph, Mary, and Jesus remained in Egypt. AT: "They remained" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-explicit]])

# until the death of Herod

Herod does not die until [Matthew 2:19](./19.md). This statement describes the length of their stay in Egypt, and it does not say that Herod died at this time.

# Out of Egypt I have called my son

"I have called my son out of Egypt"

# my son

In Hosea this refers to the people of Israel. Matthew quoted it to say that this was true of God's Son, Jesus. Translate it using a word for son that could refer to the only son or the first son.

# translationWords

* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/angel]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/lord]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/names/josephnt]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/dream]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/names/egypt]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/names/herodthegreat]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/fulfill]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/prophet]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/call]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/son]]