# we have eaten the palace salt

Possible meanings are that this refers to 1) the writers being loyal to the king or 2) the king giving the writers special honors. AT: "we are loyal to you" or "you have honored us by making us your officials" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metonymy]])

# a rebellious city

The city is a metonym for the people who live in it. AT: "a city in which live people who have rebelled against your father" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metonymy]])

# the city was destroyed

This can be translated in active form, in which case you will need to make explicit who destroyed the city. The "city" represents the people who live in it. AT: "the Babylonians destroyed the city" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-activepassive]] and [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-explicit]] and [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metonymy]])

# if this city and wall are built

This can be translated in active form. See how you translated these words in [Esra 4:13](./13.md). AT: "if they build the city and wall" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-activepassive]])

# there will be nothing remaining for you

Here "nothing" is an exaggeration to make the king think that he will be losing much tax money if the Judeans rebel. (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-hyperbole]])

# the Province Beyond the River

This is the name of the province that was west of the Euphrates River. It was across the river from the city of Susa. See how you translated this in [Esra 4:10](./09.md). (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/translate-names]])