# the Province Beyond the River

This is the name of the province that was west of the Euphrates River. It was across the river from the city of Susa. See how you translated this in [Esra 4:10](./09.md). (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/translate-names]])

# Tribute and taxes were paid to them

This can be translated in active form. AT: "The people in Jerusalem paid tribute and taxes to those kings" or "Those kings were able to collect tribute and taxes" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-activepassive]])

# make a decree

"make a law"

# Be careful not to neglect this

The litotes "not to neglect" is an understatement to emphasize that the writers want Artaxerxes to do what they tell him to do. AT: "Be careful to do this" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-litotes]])

# Why allow this threat to grow and cause more loss for the royal interests?

Artaxerxes uses a question to tell them that he understands that he will lose taxes and honor if the city is built. AT: "You must make sure that this threat does not grow and cause more loss for the royal interests." (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-rquestion]])

# threat to grow

Danger is spoken of as if it were a plant that could increase in size. AT: "danger to become worse" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metaphor]])

# cause more loss for the royal interests

The words "the royal interests" are a metonym for the king himself. AT: "cause more bad things to happen to the kings" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metonymy]])

# translationWords

* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/names/jerusalem]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/power]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/decree]]