# Connecting Statement:

When Jesus meets with the eleven, he rebukes them for their unbelief and tells them to go out into all the world to preach the gospel.

# the eleven

These are the eleven apostles who remained after Judas left them.

# they were reclining at the table

This is a metonym for eating, which was the usual way people in that day ate meals. AT: "they were eating a meal" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metonymy]])

# reclining

In Jesus' culture, when people gathered to eat, they lay down on their sides, propping themselves up on pillows beside a low table.

# hardness of heart

Jesus is rebuking his disciples because they would not believe in him. Translate this idiom so it is understood that the disciples were not believing Jesus. AT: "refusal to believe" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-idiom]])

# Go into all the world

Here "the world" is a metonym for the people in the world. AT: "Go everywhere there are people" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metonymy]])

# the entire creation

This is an exaggeration and a metonym for people everywhere. AT: "absolutely everybody" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metonymy]] and [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-hyperbole]])

# He who believes and is baptized will be saved

The word "He" refers to anyone. This sentence can be made active. AT: "God will save all people who believe and allow you to baptize them" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-activepassive]])

# he who does not believe will be condemned

The word "he" refers to anyone. This clause can be made active. AT: "God will condemn all people who do not believe" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-activepassive]])

# translationWords

* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/jesus]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/thetwelve]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/rebuke]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/unbeliever]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/believe]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/preach]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/goodnews]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/baptize]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/save]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/condemn]]