# What have I to do with you?

Elisha uses this rhetorical question to emphasize that he and the king have nothing in common. This question can be translated as a statement. AT: "I have nothing to do with you." or "I have nothing in common with you." (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-rquestion]])

# to give them into the hand of Moab

Here the "hand of Moab" refers the Moab's "control." AT: "to give them over to the control of Moab" or "to allow them to be captured by the Moabite army" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metonymy]])

# As Yahweh of hosts lives, before whom I stand, surely

"As I know that Yahweh of hosts lives, before whom I stand, surely." Here Elisha compares the certainty that Yahweh is alive to the certainty that, if it were not for Jehoshaphat being there, he would not pay attention to Joram. This is a way of making a solemn promise. AT: "As surely as Yahweh of hosts lives, before whom I stand, I promise you, if it" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-simile]])

# before whom I stand

Here serving Yahweh is spoken of as standing in his presence. AT: "whom I serve" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metaphor]])

# were it not for the fact that I honor the presence of Jehoshaphat king of Judah, I would not pay any attention to you

This can be written in positive form. AT: "I pay attention to you only because I honor the presence of Jehoshaphat king of Judah" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-doublenegatives]])

# I honor the presence of Jehoshaphat

Here Jehoshaphat is referred to by his presence. AT: "I honor Jehoshaphat" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metonymy]])

# I would not pay any attention to you, or even look at you

These two phrases have similar meaning and are used together to emphasize that he would not pay any attention to Joram. AT: "I would not have anything at all to do with you" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-parallelism]])

# translationWords

* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/yahwehofhosts]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/life]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/honor]]