# Connecting Statement:

Cornelius responds to Peter's question.

# General Information:

In verses 31 and 32 Cornelius quotes what the angel had said to him when he appeared to him at the ninth hour.

# General Information:

The words "you" and "your" are all singular. The word "we" here does not include Peter. (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-you]] and [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-exclusive]])

# Four days ago

Cornelius is referring to the day before the third night before he is speaking to Peter. Biblical culture counts the current day, so the day before three nights ago is "four days ago." Current Western culture does not count the current day, so many Western translations read, "three days ago."

# praying

Some ancient authorities say "fasting and praying" instead of simply "praying." (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/translate-textvariants]])

# at the ninth hour

The normal afternoon time that the Jews pray to God.

# your prayer has been heard by God

This can be stated in active form. AT: "God has heard your prayer" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-activepassive]])

# reminded God about you

"brought you to God's attention." This does not imply that God had forgotten.

# call to you a man named Simon who is called Peter

"tell Simon who is also called Peter to come to you"

# at once

"right away"

# You are kind to have come

This expression is a polite way of thanking Peter for coming. AT: "I certainly thank you for coming"

# in the sight of God

This refers to the presence of God.

# that you have been instructed by the Lord to say

This can be stated in active form. AT: "that the Lord has told you to say" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-activepassive]])

# translationWords

* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/names/cornelius]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/hour]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/pray]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/send]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/names/joppa]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/names/peter]]