# Connecting Statement:

This is the end of the part of the story about Cornelius.

# General Information:

The words "he" and "him" refer to Peter.

# Gentiles speak in other languages and praising God

These were known spoken languages that caused the Jews to acknowledge that the Gentiles were indeed praising God.

# Can anyone keep water from these people so they should not be baptized, these people who have received ... we?

Peter uses this question to convince the Jewish Christians that the Gentile believers should be baptized. AT: "No one should keep water from these people! We should baptize them because they have received ... we!" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-rquestion]] and [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-activepassive]])

# he commanded them to be baptized

It is implied that the Jewish Christians were the ones who would baptize them. AT: "Peter commanded the the Gentile believers to allow the Jewish Christians to baptize them" or "Peter commanded the Jewish Christians to baptize them" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-explicit]] and [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-activepassive]])

# be baptized in the name of Jesus Christ

Here "in the name of Jesus Christ" expresses that the reason for their baptism was that they believed in Jesus. AT: "be baptized as believers in Jesus Christ" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metonymy]])

# translationWords

* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/gentile]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/praise]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/peter]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/baptize]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/holyspirit]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/jesus]]