# Connecting Statement:

Yahweh continues telling Joshua what he must tell the people.

# you must present yourselves by your tribes

There were twelve tribes that made up the people of Israel. The phrase "by your tribes" means "each tribe." AT: "each of your tribes must present themselves to Yahweh" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-idiom]])

# The tribe that Yahweh selects will come near by their clans

The tribe was made up of multiple clans. AT: "From the tribe that Yahweh selects, each clan will come near" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-idiom]])

# The tribe that Yahweh selects

The leaders of Israel would toss lots, and by doing this, they would learn which tribe Yahweh had selected. This can be stated clearly. AT: "The tribe that Yahweh selects by lot" or "The tribe that Yahweh selects when we toss lots"

# The clan that Yahweh selects must come near by each household

The clan was made up of multiple households. AT: "From the clan that Yahweh selects, each household must come near" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-idiom]])

# The household that Yahweh selects must come near one by one

The household was made up of multiple people. AT: "From the household that Yahweh selects, each person must come near" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-idiom]])

# the one who is selected

This can be stated with an active form. AT: "the one whom Yahweh selects" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-activepassive]])

# he has broken the covenant of Yahweh

Breaking the covenant represents disobeying it. AT: "he has disobeyed the covenant of Yahweh" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metaphor]])

# translationWords

* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/tribe]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/yahweh]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/clan]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/household]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/covenant]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/disgrace]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/israel]]