# General Information:

The book of Mark begins with the prophet Isaiah's foretelling the coming of John the Baptist who baptizes Jesus.

# General Information:

The author is Mark, also called John Mark, who is the son of one of the several women named Mary mentioned in the four Gospels. He is also the nephew of Barnabas.

# Son of God

This is an important title for Jesus. (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/guidelines-sonofgodprinciples]])

# before your face

This is an idiom that means "ahead of you." (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-idiom]])

# your face ... your way

Here the word "your" refers to Jesus and is singular. When you translate this, use the pronoun "your" because this is a quote from a prophet, and he did not use Jesus' name. (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-you]])

# the one

This refers to the messenger.

# will prepare your way

Doing this represents preparing the people for the Lord's arrival. AT: "will prepare the people for your arrival" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metaphor]])

# The voice of one calling out in the wilderness

This can be expressed as a sentence. AT: "The voice of one calling out in the wilderness is heard" or "They hear the sound of someone calling out in the wilderness"

# Make ready the way of the Lord ... make his paths straight

These two phrases mean the same thing. (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-parallelism]])

# Make ready the way of the Lord

"Get the road ready for the Lord." Doing this represents being prepared to hear the Lord's message when he comes. People do this by repenting of their sins. AT: "Prepare to hear the Lord's message when he comes" or "Repent and be ready for the Lord to come" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metaphor]] and [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-explicit]])

# translationWords

* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/goodnews]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/jesus]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/sonofgod]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/isaiah]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/prophet]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/send]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/messenger]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/desert]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/lordgod]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/face]]