# Baldness will come upon Gaza

The abstract noun "baldness" can be stated as "bald." "Gaza" represents the people. AT: "The people of Gaza will shave their heads bald" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-abstractnouns]] and [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metonymy]])

# Baldness

The shaving of the entire head or portions of the head is a sign of great sorrow practiced by idol worshipers in nations such as Philistia. (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/translate-symaction]])

# the people ... will be made silent

Possible meanings are 1) the people will be silent because they are mourning or 2) this is a euphemism that means the enemy soldiers will kill them. (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-euphemism]])

# How long will you cut yourself in mourning?

Yahweh uses a question to emphasize that the people of Ashkelon will never stop mourning. Yahweh speaks to the people as if he were speaking to one woman, who is a metaphor for the city itself. This question can be translated as a statement. AT: "You will forever cut yourselves in mourning." (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-rquestion]] and [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metaphor]] and [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-apostrophe]])

# cut yourself in mourning

The cutting of one's skin was another practice done by the idol worshipers when they mourn the dead. (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/translate-symaction]])

# Woe ... the sea?"

The Philistines seem to be speaking here. AT: "The Philistines say, 'Woe ... the sea.'" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-explicit]])

# sword of Yahweh! How long will it be until you become silent? Go back to your scabbard! Stop and be silent.

The Philistines speak to the sword of Yahweh as if it were a person who could hear them. AT: "Yahweh, you who are holding your sword! When will you stop striking us with your sword? Stop your sword and put it back in its scabbard!" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-personification]])

# sword of Yahweh

Yahweh punishing the Philistines by sending the army from the north is spoken of as if Yahweh were striking them with a sword. (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metaphor]])

# How long will it be until you become silent?

The people of the Philistines use this question to express their deep frustration about the devastation caused by their enemies. This may be translated as a statement. AT: "Please be silent!" or "Please, Yahweh, stop striking us with your sword!" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-rquestion]])

# you become silent

A sword makes a noise as it slashes back and forth. Asking the sword to be silent means to ask it to stop slashing and killing. AT: "you rest" or "you stop slashing" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-idiom]])

# scabbard

This is the case used to protect the blade of a sword.

# How can it rest ... along the sea

Here Jeremiah is speaking. He continues speaking of the sword of Yahweh as if it were a person who could rest. Yahweh punishing the Philistines by sending the army of the north is spoken of as if Yahweh were striking the people with a sword. (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-personification]] and [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metaphor]])

# How can it rest when Yahweh has commanded it

Jeremiah uses a question to mean that the sword cannot stop since Yahweh has commanded it to continue killing. This question can be translated as a statement. AT: "It cannot stop, for Yahweh has commanded it" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-rquestion]])

# translationWords

* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/names/gaza]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/names/ashkelon]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/mourn]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/woe]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/sword]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/yahweh]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/command]]