# Your dead will live

This can be reworded so that the nominal adjective "dead" is expressed as the verb "have died." AT: "Your people who have died will live again" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-nominaladj]])

# Your dead

Possible meanings are 1) "Your" refers to Yahweh or 2) "Your" refers to the people of Israel. If you choose option two you could translate it as "Our dead."

# Awake

This speaks of dead people coming back to life as if they were waking up from sleep. (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metaphor]])

# you who live in the dust

This is a polite way of referring to those who have died. AT: "those who are dead and buried" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-euphemism]])

# for your dew is the dew of light

Yahweh acting kindly towards his people and bringing them back to life is spoken of as if it were the dew that causes the plants to live. (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metaphor]])

# for your dew

Possible meanings are 1) "your" refers to Yahweh and this is the dew that Yahweh gives or 2) "your" refers to the people of Israel and this is the dew they receive from Yahweh.

# dew of light

Possible meanings are 1) "light" refers to Yahweh's power to make dead people alive again. AT: "dew from Yahweh" or 2) "light" refers to the morning time when dew is on the plants. AT: "dew in the morning"

# the earth will bring forth its dead

"the earth will give birth to those who died." Yahweh causing dead people to come back to life is spoken of as if the earth would give birth to those who have died. AT: "and Yahweh will cause those who have died to rise from the earth" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metaphor]])

# translationWords

* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/death]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/life]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/joy]]