# It came about from the time that

This phrase is used here to mark the beginning of the next part of the story. (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/writing-newevent]])

# he made him manager over his house and over everything he possessed

"Potiphar put Joseph in charge of his household and everything that belonged to him"

# blessed

Here "blessed" means to cause good and beneficial things to happen to the person or thing that is being blessed.

# The blessing of Yahweh was on

Here the author speaks of the blessing that Yahweh gave as if it were a physical covering put over something. AT: "Yahweh blessed" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metaphor]])

# everything that Potiphar had in the house and in the field

This refers his household and his crops and livestock. The full meaning of this statement can be made explicit. AT: "Potiphar's household and all of his crops and livestock" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-explicit]])

# Potiphar put everything that he had under Joseph's care

When something is "put under someone's care," it means that the person is responsible for its care and safe-keeping. AT: "So Potiphar put Joseph in charge of everything that he had" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metaphor]])

# He did not have to think about anything except the food that he ate

He did not have to worry about anything in his household; he only had to make decisions about what he wanted to eat. This can be stated in positive form. AT: "Potiphar only had to think about what he wanted to eat. He did not have to worry about anything else in his house" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-explicit]] and [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-doublenegatives]])

# Now

The word "now" marks a break in the story line as the author gives background information about Joseph. (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/writing-background]])

# handsome and attractive

Both of the words have same meaning. They refer to Joseph's pleasing appearance. He was likely good-looking and strong. AT: "handsome and strong" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-doublet]])

# translationWords

* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/manager]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/house]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/yahweh]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/bless]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/names/egypt]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/names/josephot]]