# It came about after this that

"And so." This phrase is used here to mark a new event in the story. (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/writing-newevent]])

# Look

"Listen." Joseph uses this word to get Potiphar's wife's attention.

# my master does not pay attention to what I do in the house

"my master has no concern about his household with me in charge." This can be written in positive form. AT: "my master trusts me with his household" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-doublenegatives]])

# he has put everything that he owns under my care

When something is "put under someone's care," it means that the person is responsible for its care and safe-keeping. AT: "he has put me in charge of everything that belongs to him" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metaphor]])

# No one is greater in this house than I am

Here the author speaks of authority as if it were greatness. AT: "I have more authority in this house than anyone else" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metaphor]])

# He has not kept back anything from me but you

This can be stated in positive form. AT: "He has given me everything except you" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-litotes]])

# How then can I do this great wickedness and sin against God?

Joseph uses a question for emphasis. This can be written as a statement. AT: "I certainly cannot do such a wicked thing and sin against God." (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-rquestion]])

# translationWords

* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/lust]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/sex]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/lord]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/evil]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/sin]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/god]]