# Connecting Statement:

Peter continues teaching his readers about holiness and obedience.

# Therefore put aside all evil, all deceit, hypocrisy, envy, and all slander

These sinful actions are spoken of as if they were objects that people could throw away. The word "Therefore" here refers back to everything that Peter has said about being holy and obedient. AT: "So then, get rid of everything that is evil, and hypocrisy, and envy, and all slander" or "So then, stop being evil, or being deceptive, or being hypocritical, or envying, or slandering" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metaphor]])

# As newborn infants, long for pure spiritual milk

Peter speaks of his readers as if they were babies. Babies requires very pure food, which they can digest easily. In the same way, believers need pure teaching from God's word. AT: "Just as babies long for their mother's breast milk, so you must yearn for pure spiritual milk" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metaphor]])

# long for

"desire intensely" or "yearn for"

# pure spiritual milk

Peter speaks of the word of God as if it were spiritual milk that nourished children. (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metaphor]])

# you may grow in salvation

Here the word "salvation" refers to when God brings the salvation of his people to completion when Jesus returns (see [1 Peter 1:5](../01/03.md)). They were to increasingly act in ways that were consistent with this salvation. You can translate this with a verbal phrase. AT: "you may grow up spiritually until God saves you completely" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-abstractnouns]] and [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-explicit]])

# grow

Peter speaks of believers advancing in knowledge of God and faithfulness to him as if they were children growing up. (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metaphor]])

# if you have tasted that the Lord is kind

Here to taste means to experience something personally. AT: "if you have experienced the Lord's kindness toward you" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metaphor]])

# translationWords

* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/evil]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/deceive]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/hypocrite]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/envy]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/slander]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/purify]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/spirit]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/save]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/lord]]