# Connecting Statement:

Peter continues quoting from the scriptures.

# the stone that was rejected ... has become the head of the corner

This is a metaphor that means people, like builders, rejected Jesus, but God has made him the most important stone in a building. (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metaphor]] and [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-explicit]])

# the stone that was rejected by the builders

This can be stated in active form. AT: "the stone that the builders rejected" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-activepassive]])

# the head of the corner

This refers to the most important stone in a building and means basically the same thing as "cornerstone" in [1 Peter 2:6](./06.md).

# A stone of stumbling and a rock that makes them fall

These two phrases share similar meanings. Together they emphasize that people will take offense at this "stone," which refers to Jesus. AT: "a stone or a rock over which people will stumble" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-explicit]] and [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-parallelism]] and [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metaphor]])

# stumble because they disobey the word

Here "the word" refers to the gospel message. To disobey means that they do not believe. AT: "stumble because they are not believing the message about Jesus" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metonymy]])

# which is what they were appointed to do

This can be stated in active form. AT: "for which God also appointed them" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-activepassive]])

# translationWords

* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/honor]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/believe]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/reject]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/head]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/stumble]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/disobey]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/appoint]]