# General Information:

Peter begins to talk about how to live Christian lives.

# foreigners and wanderers

These two words mean basically the same thing. Peter speaks of his readers as people who are living in foreign lands away from their home. See how you translated "foreigners" in [1 Peter 1:1](../01/01.md). (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-doublet]] and [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metaphor]])

# to abstain from fleshly desires

Here the idea of flesh refers to the sinful nature of humanity in this fallen world. AT: "to not to give in to sinful desires" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metaphor]])

# make war against your soul

Here the word "soul" refers to a person's spiritual life. Peter speaks of sinful desires as soldiers that are trying to destroy the spiritual life of believers. AT: "seek to destroy your spiritual life" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metonymy]] and [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metaphor]])

# You should have good behavior

The abstract noun "behavior" can be translated with a verb. AT: "You should behave well" or "You should behave in a good way" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-abstractnouns]])

# if they speak about you as

"if they accuse you of"

# they may observe your good works

The abstract noun "works" can be translated with a verb. AT: "they may observe the good things that you do" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-abstractnouns]])

# on the day of his coming

"on the day when he comes." This refers to the day when God will judge all people. AT: "when he comes to judge everyone" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-explicit]])