# Connecting Statement:

Peter continues speaking to people who are servants in people's houses.

# it is to this that you were called

Here the word "this" refers to believers enduring while suffering for doing good, as Peter has just described. This can be stated in active form. AT: "God has called you to this" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-activepassive]])

# for you to follow in his steps

"so that you would follow his footprints." Peter speaks of following Jesus' example in the way that they suffer as if one were walking on the same path that Jesus had taken. AT: "so that you would imitate his behavior" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metaphor]])

# neither was any deceit found in his mouth

This can be stated in active form. AT: "neither did anyone find deceit in his mouth" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-activepassive]])

# neither was any deceit found in his mouth

Here "deceit" refers to words that a person speaks that are intended to deceive other people. AT: "neither did he speak any lies" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metonymy]])

# When he was reviled, he did not revile back

To "revile" someone is to speak abusively to another person. This can be stated in active form. AT: "When people insulted him, he did not insult them back" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-activepassive]])

# gave himself to the one who judges justly

"he entrusted himself to the one who judges justly." This means that he trusted God to take away his shame, which had been put on him by those who treated him harshly.