# Look

"Listen carefully" or "Pay attention"

# disaster

See how you translated this in [Micah 1:12](../01/11.md).

# this clan

This "clan" refers to the entire community of Israel, whose rich people are oppressing the poor. The sins of the leaders are coming back on the whole nation.

# from which you will not remove your necks

Yahweh speaks of punishing the people as if he were putting a yoke around their necks. AT: "from which you will not be able to escape" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metaphor]])

# sing a song about you

"sing a song to make fun of you"

# lament with a wailing lamentation

"they will cry loudly." They are pretending to mourn, as if those they love have died. (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-irony]])

# We Israelites ... to traitors

This is the song that the enemies will sing to make fun of the Israelites and laugh as the Israelites suffer. (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-irony]])

# How can he remove it from me?

The enemy mocks the surprise the rich leaders of Israel feel because God has taken their land and given it to someone else just as they had taken the land from the poor. This question can be translated as a statement. AT: "How wrong he is to take it from me!" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-rquestion]] and [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-irony]])

# Therefore, you rich people will have no descendants to divide up the territory by lot in the assembly of Yahweh

Possible meanings are 1) Micah looks forward to a time after the exile when those who return will divide up the land or 2) he is speaking of a custom of his time when the tribe or clan would divide up their land and give it to individuals.