# General Information:

Micah speaks to false prophets, as well as to the rich who have abused their power.

# Do not prophesy

The speakers are speaking to Micah and to others, so this is plural. (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-you]])

# they say

"the people of Israel say"

# They must not prophesy

"The prophets must not prophesy"

# reproaches must not come

Reproach is spoken of as if it were a robber chasing a person. It can be translated as a verb. AT: "we will not allow you to reproach us" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metaphor]] and [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-abstractnouns]])

# Should it really be said ... "Is the Spirit ... his deeds?"

Micah is scolding the Israelites by using this question. This can be translated as a statement. AT: "You know that you do not need to ask ... 'Is the Spirit ... his deeds?'" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-rquestion]])

# house of Jacob

The word "house" is a metonym for the family that lives in the house. In this case it refers to Jacob's descendants. AT: "descendants of Jacob" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metonymy]])

# said ... "Is the Spirit of Yahweh angry? Are these really his deeds?"

Possible meanings are 1) the people really do not know if they are seeing Yahweh act. AT: "asked ... 'Is the Spirit of Yahweh angry? Are these really his deeds?'" or 2) the people do not believe that Yahweh is really punishing them. These rhetorical questions can be translated as statements. AT: "said ... 'The Spirit of Yahweh is not really angry. These are not really his deeds.'" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-rquestion]])

# Do not my words do good to anyone who walks uprightly?

Micah uses a question to teach the people. It can bee translated as a statement. AT: "My message does good to those who walk uprightly." (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-rquestion]])

# my people

This refers to either 1) Micah's people or 2) Yahweh's people.

# You strip the robe, the garment, from those who pass by unsuspectingly

Possible meanings are 1) the wicked rich people are literally stealing robes from the poor or 2) creditors are keeping the outer garments of the poor who come to borrow money and give the garment as assurance they will repay. (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metaphor]])

# translationWords

* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/prophet]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/reproach]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/house]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/jacob]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/holyspirit]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/yahweh]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/angry]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/works]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/word]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/good]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/walk]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/adversary]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/robe]]