# It was by faith that Enoch was taken up so that he did not see death

This can be stated in active form. AT: "It was by faith that Enoch did not die because God took him" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-activepassive]])

# see death

This speaks of death as if it were an object that people can see. It means to experience death. AT: "die" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metaphor]])

# before he was taken up

This can be stated in active form. AT: "before God took him" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-activepassive]])

# it was testified that he had pleased God

This can be stated in active form. Possible meanings are 1) "God said that Enoch had pleased him" or 2) "people said that Enoch pleased God." (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-activepassive]])

# Now without faith

Here "Now" does not mean "at this moment," but is used to draw attention to the important point that follows.

# without faith it is impossible to please him

This can be stated in positive form. AT: "a person can please God only if he has faith in God" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-doublenegatives]])

# that anyone coming to God

Wanting to worship God and belong to his people is spoken of as if the person is literally coming to God. AT: "that anyone who wants to belong to God" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metaphor]])

# he is a rewarder of those

"he rewards those"

# those who seek him

Those who learn about God and make an effort to obey him are spoken of as if they were seeking to find him. (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metaphor]])

# translationWords

* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/faith]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/names/enoch]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/death]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/believe]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/reward]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/seek]]