# when he was tested

This can be stated in active form. AT: "when God tested him" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-activepassive]])

# to whom it had been said

This can be stated in active form. AT: "to whom God said" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-activepassive]])

# that your descendants will be named

Here "named" means assigned or designated. This sentence can be stated in active form. AT: "that I will designate your descendants" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-activepassive]]) (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metonymy]])

# God was able to raise up Isaac from the dead ones

"Raise" is an idiom for "caused to live again" AT: "God was able to cause Isaac to live again"  (See: rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-idiom)

# to raise up ... from the dead

In this verse, "to raise up" is to make alive again. The words "from the dead" speak of all dead people together in the underworld.

# figuratively speaking

"in a manner of speaking." This means that what the author says next is not to be understood literally. God did not bring Isaac back from death literally. But because Abraham was about to sacrifice Isaac when God stopped him, it was as if God brought him back from the dead.

# it was from them

"it was from the dead"

# he received him back

"Abraham received Isaac back"

# translationWords

* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/faith]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/names/abraham]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/test]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/sacrifice]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/names/isaac]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/promise]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/descendant]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/death]]