# Connecting Statement:

The writer continues to speak of what God did for the ancestors of the people of Israel.

# What more can I say?

The author uses a question to emphasize that there are many examples that he could have quoted. This can be expressed as a statement. AT: "And there are many more examples." (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-rquestion]])

# the time will fail me

"I will not have enough time"

# Barak

This is the name of a man. (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/translate-names]])

# It was through faith that they

Here "they" does not mean that each person listed in 11:32 did all the things the author is about to mention. The author means in general these are the kinds of things that those with faith were able to do. AT: "It was through faith that men like these"

# they conquered kingdoms

Here "kingdoms" refers to the people who lived there. AT: "they defeated the people of foreign kingdoms"

# They stopped the mouths of lions, extinguished the power of fire, escaped the edge of the sword

These are some of the ways God saved believers from death. AT: "Lions did not eat them, fire did not burn them, their enemies did not kill them. They" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metaphor]] and [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metonymy]])

# were healed of illnesses

This can be stated in active form. AT: "received healing from God" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-activepassive]])

# became mighty in battle, and defeated

"and they became mighty in battle and defeated"

# translationWords

* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/names/gideon]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/names/samson]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/names/jephthah]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/names/david]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/names/samuel]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/prophet]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/faith]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/kingdom]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/justice]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/promise]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/lion]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/quench]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/fire]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/sword]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/mighty]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/foreigner]]