# Women received back their dead by resurrection

This can be restated to remove the abstract noun "resurrection." The word "dead" is a nominal adjective. It can be stated as a verb. AT: "Women received back alive those who had died" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-abstractnouns]] and [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-nominaladj]])

# Others were tortured, not accepting release

It is implied that their enemies would have released them from prison under certain conditions. This can be stated in active form. AT: "Others accepted torture rather than release from prison" or "Others allowed their enemies to torture them rather than doing what their enemies required of them in order to release them" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-activepassive]] and [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-explicit]])

# tortured

made to suffer great mental or physical pain

# a better resurrection

Possible meanings are 1) these people will experience a better life in heaven than what they experienced in this world or 2) these people will have a better resurrection than those who did not have faith. Those with faith will live forever with God. Those without faith will live forever separated from God.

# Others had testing in mocking and whippings ... They were stoned. They were sawn in two. They were killed with the sword

These can be stated in active form. AT: "People mocked and whipped others ... People threw stones at others. People sawed others in two. People killed others with the sword" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-activepassive]])

# Others had testing in mocking and whippings, and even chains and imprisonment

This can be reworded so that the abstract nouns are expressed as verbs. AT: "God tested others by allowing their enemies to mock and whip them and even put them in chains and imprison them" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-abstractnouns]])

# went about

"went from place to place" or "lived all the time"

# in sheepskins and goatskins

"wearing only the skins of sheep and goats"

# They were destitute

"They had nothing" or "They were very poor"

# The world was not worthy

Here "world" refers to the people. AT: "The people of this world were not worthy" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metonymy]])

# were always being led astray

People going from place to place and having no place to stay is spoken of as if someone has led those people astray. AT: "were constantly wandering" (See: [[:en:ta:vol1:translate:figs_metaphor]])

# caves and holes in the ground

"caves, and some lived in holes in the ground"

# translationWords

* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/resurrection]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/test]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/mock]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/stone]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/sword]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/sheep]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/goat]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/world]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/worthy]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/desert]]