# Can you spread out the sky ... a mirror of cast metal?

Elihu asks this question to emphasize that Job cannot do this. AT: "You cannot spread out the sky ... a mirror of cast metal." (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-rquestion]])

# as strong as a mirror of cast metal

In biblical days, mirrors were made of metal. Elihu speaks of the sky giving no rain as if it were as hard as solid metal. (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metaphor]])

# cast metal

This refers to metal that is melted, poured into a mold, and then hardens as it cools.

# Teach us what we should say to him

Here the words "us" and "we" refer to Elihu, Eliphaz, Bildad, and Zophar, but not to Job. Elihu uses this phrase sarcastically. (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-exclusive]])

# because of the darkness of our minds

Elihu speaks of the inability to understand as if it were having darkness in one's mind. AT: "because we do not understand" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metaphor]])

# Should he be told that I wish to speak with him?

Elihu asks this rhetorical question to emphasize that no one can do this. AT: "I cannot have someone tell him that I wish to speak with him." (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-rquestion]])

# Should he be told

This can be stated in active form. AT: "Should I have someone tell him" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-activepassive]])

# Would a person wish to be swallowed up?

Elihu asks this rhetorical question to emphasize that no one would want this to happen. AT: "No person would want to be swallowed up." (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-rquestion]])

# to be swallowed up

Elihu speaks of a person being destroyed as if the person were swallowed up. This can be stated in active form. AT: "for God to destroy him" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metaphor]] and [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-activepassive]])