# General Information:

Jotham continues telling the parable he begins in [Judges 9:7](../09/07.md), where the trees represent the Israelites.

# the olive tree said to them ... fig tree said to them

In this parable, Jotham describes the trees as doing things that humans do. (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-parables]] and [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-personification]])

# Should I give up my abundance ... over the other trees?

The olive tree is asking this question to refuse to be king. This question can be expressed as a statement. Alternate translation: "I will not give up my abundance ... over the other trees." (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-rquestion]])

# abundance

This word for "wealth" is a metonym for the olives that come from the tree. People ate olives as food and crushed them to make oil for lamps. Alternate translation: "oil" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metonymy]])

# by which gods and men are honored

This can be translated in active form. Alternate translation: "by which people honor both gods and other men"

# gods

It is possible to translate the same Hebrew word as "god," "God," or "gods," so possible meanings here are 1) "gods" or 2) "God."

# sway over

To sway is to move back and forth. Trees sway when the wind blows them. Here this is a metaphor for ruling over people. Jotham is also using irony, saying that the work of any ruler will be useless because the "trees," the people, will not obey anyone who rules them. Alternate translation: "rule over" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metaphor]] and [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-irony]])
