# General Information:

Jotham continues telling his parable, where trees represent various people groups, and makes the application.

# The thornbush said to the trees

In this parable, Jotham describes the thornbush and the trees as doing things that humans do. (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-parables]] and [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-personification]])

# to anoint me as king over you

To anoint someone with oil is a symbolic action that appoints a person to be king. AT: "to appoint me as your king" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/translate-symaction]])

# find safety

The word "safety" is an abstract noun that can be expressed as an adjective. AT: "be safe" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-abstractnouns]])

# fire come out of the thornbush and let it burn up the cedars of Lebanon

This means to let the thornbush burn so that it will burn the cedars.

# then let fire come out of the thornbush

The thornbush refers to itself as "the thornbush." AT: "then may fire come out from me, the thornbush" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-123person]])

# Now

This does not mean "at this moment," but is used to draw attention to the important point that follows.

# if you have done well concerning Jerub Baal and his house, and if you have punished him as he deserves

Jotham offered the possibility that what they did was good, but Jotham does not actually believe what they did was good. AT: "if you have done what is right and Jerub Baal deserved for you to kill all of his sons" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-hypo]])

# Jerub Baal

This is another name for Gideon. See how you translated this in [Judges 6:32](../06/31.md).

# his house

Here "house" represents Gideon's family. (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metonymy]])

# translationWords

* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/amen]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/anoint]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/king]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/cedar]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/names/lebanon]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/true]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/names/abimelech]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/house]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/punish]]