# If you acted with honesty and integrity with Jerub Baal and his house

Jotham offered the possibility that what they did was good, but Jotham does not actually believe what they did was good. AT: "If you treated Jerub Baal and his family as they deserved to be treated" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-hypo]])

# Jerub Baal

This is another name for Gideon. It means "let Baal defend himself." See how you translated this in [Judges 6:32](../06/31.md).

# his house

Here "house" refers to family. AT: "his family" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metonymy]])

# But if not

Jotham offered the opposite possibility that what they did was evil and applied a curse. Jotham does believe what they did was evil. AT: "But if you treated Jerub Baal and his family as they did not deserve to be treated" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-hypo]])

# let fire come out from Abimelech and burn up the men of Shechem

Jotham is speaking a curse. He speaks of Abimelech destroying the people of Shechem as if he would burn them with fire. (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metaphor]])

# Let fire come out from the men of Shechem and Beth Millo, to burn up Abimelech

Jotham is speaking a curse. He speaks of the people of Shechem and Beth Millo destroying Abimelech as if they would burn him with fire. (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metaphor]])

# Beth Millo

This is the name of a place. See how you translated this in [Judges 9:6](./05.md).

# Beer

This is the name of a city. (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/translate-names]])