# Gaal ... Ebed

See how you translated these names in [Judges 9:26](./26.md).

# Who is Abimelech, and who is Shechem, that we should serve him?

Gaal uses a question to emphasize that the people of Shechem should not serve Abimelech. AT: "We should not serve Abimelech!" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-rquestion]])

# Who is Abimelech, and who is Shechem, that we should serve him?

Both of these questions means the same thing. Gaal refers to Abimelech as "Shechem" because Abimelech's mother was from Shechem. AT: "We should not serve Abimelech, that is, Shechem!" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-parallelism]] and [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-rquestion]])

# Is he not the son of Jerub Baal? Is Zebul not his officer?

Gaal uses a question to emphasize that the people of Shechem should not serve Abimelech. AT: "He is just the son of Jerub Baal, and Zebul is just his officer." (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-rquestion]])

# Jerub Baal

This is another name for Gideon. See how you translated this in [Judges 6:32](../06/32.md).

# Zebul

This is the name of a man. (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/translate-names]])

# Serve the men of Hamor, Shechem's father

Gaal means the people of Shechem should serve those who descended from Hamor, that is, those who are truly Canaanites, and not serve someone whose father was an Israelite.

# Why should we serve Abimelech?

Gaal uses a question to emphasize that the people of Shechem should not serve Abimelech. AT: "We should not serve Abimelech!" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-rquestion]])

