# You must not wail

"You must not make a loud cry of sadness"

# Why is my beloved one, the one who has had so many wicked intentions, in my house?

Yahweh uses this rhetorical question to emphasize that the people Judah no longer have a right to be in his temple. This question can be written as a statement. AT: "My beloved one, the one who has had so many wicked intentions, should not be in my house." (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-rquestion]])

# is my beloved one, the one who has had

The people of Judah are spoken of as if they were a single woman greatly beloved. AT: "are the people whom I love, those who have had" or "are the people of Judah whom I love, who have had" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metaphor]])

# In the past Yahweh called you a leafy olive tree

In the Old Testament people were often compared to trees or plants. Those who were prosperous and healthy were spoken of as leafy, fruitful tree. AT: "In the past Yahweh said that you were like a leafy olive tree" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metaphor]])

# will light a fire on it

This expression continues the metaphor of the tree. The fire stands for the destruction of the people. (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metaphor]])

# that will sound like the roar of a storm

This compares the sound of the raging fire to the sound of a severe storm. (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-simile]])

# its branches will be broken

This can be stated in active form. AT: "it will break off your branches" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-activepassive]])

# translationWords

* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/pray]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/beloved]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/call]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/olive]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/fruit]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/fire]]