# Yahweh made me know these things, so I know them

"You have revealed things to me and so I know them." The refers to Yahweh revealing to Jeremiah that his enemies were planning to kill him.

# made me see their deeds

The refers to Yahweh revealing to Jeremiah that his enemies were planning to kill him. This is spoken of here as if Jeremiah has already see their actions. AT: "have revealed to me their evil plans" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metaphor]])

# I was like a gentle lamb being led to a butcher

This speaks of Jeremiah being unaware of his enemies' plans to kill him by comparing him to a lamb who is being led to be slaughtered. (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metaphor]])

# being led to a butcher

This can be stated in active form. AT: "that my enemies were leading to a butcher" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-activepassive]])

# Let us destroy the tree with its fruit

Here Jeremiah's enemies speak of killing him as if he were a fruit tree that they were planning to destroy. (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metaphor]])

# Let us cut him off from the land of the living

The phrase "cut him off" means to destroy him. Also, "the living" refers to living people. AT: "Let us kill him so he is no longer in the land of those who are alive" or "Let us destroy him so that he is no longer among the world of living people" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-idiom]])

# his name will be no longer remembered

This can be stated in active form. AT: "people will no longer remember his name" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-activepassive]])

# the heart and the mind

The heart is a metonym for what a person feels and desires and "the mind" is a metonym for what a person thinks and decides. AT: "a person's feelings and thoughts" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metonymy]])

# I will witness your vengeance

The word "vengeance" here can be expressed as a verb. AT: "I will watch you take revenge" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-abstractnouns]])

# translationWords

* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/know]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/works]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/lamb]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/fruit]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/cutoff]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/life]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/name]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/righteous]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/judgeposition]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/heart]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/mind]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/witness]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/avenge]]