# Anathoth

This is the name of a special city where priests live. (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/translate-names]])

# seeking your life

This phrase represents wanting or trying to kill someone. AT: "wanting to kill you" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metaphor]])

# They say

"They say to me." The men are speaking to Jeremiah.

# you will die by our hand

Here the men refer to their "hand" to emphasize that they plan to kill him themselves. AT: "we ourselves will kill you" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-synecdoche]])

# Yahweh of hosts says this

Jeremiah often uses these words to introduce an important message from Yahweh. See how you translated this in [Jeremiah 6:6](../06/06.md).

# See

This word is used here to draw someone's attention to what is said next. AT: "Listen"

# vigorous young men

men at the strongest time of their lives

# will die by the sword

Here the "sword" represents battle. AT: "will die in battle" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metonymy]])

# None of them will be left

This can be stated in active form. AT: "I will leave none of them" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-activepassive]])

# a year of their punishment

The word "year" here is a idiom that describes a specific period of time that Yahweh decides. AT: "in the time of their punishment" or "for the time of their punishment is coming" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-idiom]])

# translationWords

* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/prophet]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/death]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/hand]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/punish]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/sword]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/famine]]