# Israel and Judah are not forsaken by their God, by Yahweh of hosts

The words "Israel" and "Judah" are metonyms for the people of Israel and Judah. This can be translated in active form. AT: "Yahweh of hosts, the God of the people of Israel and Judah, has not forsaken them" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metonymy]] and [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-activepassive]])

# their land is filled with offenses committed against the Holy One of Israel

The land in which they live is spoken of as if it were a container and their offenses as if they were solid objects that could fill the container. The abstract noun "offenses" can be translated as a verb. AT: "they have offended the Holy One of Israel everywhere throughout the land" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metaphor]] and [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-abstractnouns]])

# in her iniquity

Babylon is spoken of as if it were a woman. The word "iniquity" is a metonym for God punishing the people for their iniquity. AT: "when Yahweh punishes Babylon" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metaphor]] and [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metonymy]])

# will repay all of it to her

Babylon is spoken of as if it were a woman, and the iniquity of the people is spoken of as if Yahweh needed to pay back a debt. The word "her," meaning Babylon, is a metonym for the people of Babylon. AT: "will punish the Babylonians as much as they deserve" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metaphor]] and [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metonymy]])