# General Information:

Yahweh speaks to the people of Jerusalem, who could hear him, as if he were speaking to the people of Babylon, who could not hear him. He speaks to the city of Babylon as if he were speaking to the people of Babylon itself. He speaks of the city as if it were a mountain. (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-apostrophe]] and [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metonymy]] and [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metaphor]])

# you, mountain of destruction

Possible meanings are 1) Yahweh is speaking of Babylon as if it were a mountain that destroys people and property. AT: "you, mountain that destroys" or 2) Babylon was like a mountain where bandits would live and hide and go out to raid. AT: "you, people of a strong nation that destroys other nations" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metaphor]])

# I will stretch out my hand against you

The word "hand" is a metonym for the power that the hand exercises. See how "I will attack the inhabitants of the land with my hand" is translated in [Jeremiah 6:12](../06/11.md). AT: "I will use my strength to attack you" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metonymy]])

# I will ... roll you down from the cliffs

Yahweh stops speaking of Babylon as a mountain and speaks of it as a building that he is breaking down and throwing away. (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metaphor]])

# cliffs

A cliff is the steep side of a mountain or hill.

# I will ... make you a burned-out mountain

Yahweh speaks of Babylon as no longer being the great "mountain of destruction" but now a mountain that he has destroyed. AT: "I will ... make you a pile of useless rocks" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metaphor]])

# you will become an everlasting devastation

The abstract noun "devastation" can be translated as a verb "devastate." AT: "I will devastate you and no one will ever rebuild you" or "I will turn you into an empty place where no one will ever live" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-abstractnouns]])

# this is Yahweh's declaration

Yahweh speaks of himself by name to express the certainty of what he is declaring. See how you translated this in [Jeremiah 1:8](../01/07.md). AT: "this is what Yahweh has declared" or "this is what I, Yahweh, have declared" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-123person]])

# translationWords

* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/earth]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/hand]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/foundation]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/eternity]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/devastated]]