# General Information:

The speaker speaks as if he were a woman. The woman is a metaphor for the city of Jerusalem, which in turn is a metonym for the people of Jerusalem. (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metaphor]] and [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metonymy]])

# he has driven me into confusion

Possible meanings are 1) "he has caused me to be unable to think clearly" or 2) "he has crushed me."

# has made me an empty pot

Babylon has taken everything from Israel. (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metaphor]])

# Like a monster

Here Babylon is compared to a monster. (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-simile]])

# he has swallowed me

Jerusalem compares its destruction to being swallowed. (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metaphor]])

# he has filled his stomach with my delicious foods

This continues to speak of Babylon as if it were a monster. This states in another way the previous idea that Babylon has taken everything from Israel. Here "foods" represents all the good things that were there before. (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metaphor]] and [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metonymy]])

# he has spit me out

Nebuchadnezzar took what he wanted and spit out what he did not want. AT: "he has vomited me up" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metaphor]])

# The one who lives in Zion

"She who lives in Zion"

# The one ... to me and my flesh ... my blood

All of these phrases refer to a woman.

# inhabitants of Chaldea

"people who live in Chaldea"

# translationWords

* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/nebuchadnezzar]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/devour]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/zion]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/jerusalem]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/blood]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/chaldeans]]