# How Babylon has been captured ... How Babylon has become a ruined place

The word "how" here shows that something that people thought was impossible has happened. This can be stated in active form. AT: "We never thought that enemies could capture Babylon, but they have captured her ... We never thought that Babylon could become a ruined place, but it has become a ruined place" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-activepassive]])

# the praise of all the earth is seized

The word "praise" is a metonym for the thing that people praised, and the word "earth" is a metonym for the people living on the earth. This can be translated in active form. AT: "enemies have seized Babylon, the nation that everyone on earth praised" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metonymy]] and [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-activepassive]])

# The sea ... roaring waves

Babylon's enemies have overcome her. "Waves" represent many people groups overcoming Babylon. The words "sea" and "water" often represent the nations. (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metaphor]])

# She is covered with its roaring waves

This can be translated in active form. AT: "Its roaring waves have covered her" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-activepassive]])

# translationWords

* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/babylon]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/praise]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/earth]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/seize]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/ruin]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/nation]]