# the fourth year ... the eleventh year

The words "fourth" and "eleventh" are the ordinal forms of "four" and "eleven." You may need to make explicit the event from which the writer counts the years. AT: "the fourth year after Solomon became king ... the eleventh year after Solomon became king" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/translate-ordinal]] and [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-explicit]])

# house of Yahweh

"the temple"

# in the month of Ziv

"Ziv" is the name of the second month of the Hebrew calendar. It is during the last part of April and the first part of May on Western calendars. See how you translated this in [1 Kings 6:1](./01.md). (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/translate-hebrewmonths]] and [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/translate-names]])

# in the month of Bul, which is the eighth month

"Bul" is the eighth month of the Hebrew calendar. It is during the last part of October and the first part of November on Western calendars. (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/translate-hebrewmonths]] and [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/translate-ordinal]] and [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/translate-names]])

# the house was finished in all its parts and conforming to all its specifications

This can be translated in active form. AT: "they finished building every part of the house. They built it exactly the way Solomon had told them to build it"

# Solomon took

Solomon would have commanded his workers to do this work. AT: "It took Solomon's workers" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metonymy]])

# translationWords

* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/foundation]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/houseofgod]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/biblicaltimeyear]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/temple]]