# Connecting Statement:

Paul ends his instructions on how all believers should live.

# And do not get drunk with wine

"You should not get drunk from drinking wine"

# Instead, be filled with the Holy Spirit

"Instead, you should be controlled with the Holy Spirit"

# psalms and hymns and spiritual songs

Possible meanings are that 1) Paul is using these words as a merism for "all sorts of songs to praise God" or 2) Paul is listing specific forms of music. (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-merism]])

# psalms

These are probably songs from the Old Testament book of Psalms that Christians sang.

# hymns

These are songs of praise and worship that may have been written specifically for Christians to sing.

# spiritual songs

Possible meanings are 1) these are songs that Holy Spirit inspires a person to sing right at that moment or 2) "spiritual songs" and "hymns" are doublets and mean basically the same thing. (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-doublet]])

# with all your heart

Here "heart" is a metonym for a person's thoughts or inner being. The phrase "with all your heart" means to do something with enthusiasm. AT: "with all of your being" or "enthusiastically" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metonomy]])

# in the name of our Lord Jesus Christ

"Name" here is a metonym for the person of Jesus Christ. AT: "by means of our Lord Jesus Christ" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metonomy]])

# translationWords

* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/wine]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/holyspirit]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/psalm]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/spirit]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/praise]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/heart]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/lord]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/jesus]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/godthefather]]