# General Information:

Yahweh is speaking.

# When Ephraim spoke

Hosea uses the term "Ephraim" to refer to the entire northern kingdom, although it was also the name of one of the ten tribes. Hosea seems to be speaking of a long-past time, when the northern kingdom was strong and honored, unlike at the present time. (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-synecdoche]])

# there was trembling

The missing phrase "among other nations" is understood here. Other nations felt humility in front of the northern kingdom. AT: "there was trembling among other people" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-ellipsis]])

# He exalted himself in Israel

Here "exalting" means to make oneself important. (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metaphor]])

# but he became guilty because of Baal worship, and he died

When the people of Ephraim began worshiping Baal, they grew weak, and their enemies defeated them. Here "died" refers to the nation growing weak. (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metaphor]])

# Now they sin more and more

Here "they" refers to the tribe of Ephraim and the entire nation of Israel, who followed Ephraim's example.

# These men who sacrifice kiss calves

Part of idol worship was kissing idol figures that were images of calves. (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-explicit]])

# translationWords

* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/ephraim]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/exalt]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/israel]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/guilt]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/baal]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/worship]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/death]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/sin]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/image]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/idol]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/sacrifice]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/kiss]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/cow]]