# General Information:

Parallelism is common in Hebrew poetry. (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/writing-poetry]] and [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-parallelism]])

# For the chief musician

"This is for the director of music to use in worship"

# set to Al Tashheth

This probably tells what musical style or tune to use when singing the psalm. See how you translated this in [Psalms 57:1](../057/001.md).

# A psalm of David

Possible meanings are 1) David wrote the psalm or 2) the psalm is about David or 3) the psalm is in the style of David's psalms.

# A michtam

The meaning of the word "michtam" is uncertain. You may use the word "psalm" instead. This can be written as: "This is a psalm that David wrote." See how you translated this in [Psalms 16:1](../016/001.md).

# when Saul sent, and they watched the house to kill him

"from when Saul sent his soldiers to go and watch David's house for an opportunity to kill him"

# set me on high

A high place represents a safe place where his enemies cannot reach him. AT: "put me in a safe place" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metonymy]])

# rise up against me

Rising up against someone represents attacking him. AT: "attack me" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metonymy]])

# bloodthirsty men

The word "bloodthirsty" contains "blood," which refers to murder and "thirsty," which refers to desire. AT: "people who desire to kill" or "people who like to kill people" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-idiom]])

# translationWords

* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/psalm]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/david]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/saul]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/god]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/raise]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/iniquity]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/save]]