# you have been my high tower and a refuge

High towers and refuges are places that people can go to for shelter from their enemies. The psalmist speaks of God protecting him as if God were a strong, safe shelter. AT: "you have protected me like a high tower and a refuge" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metaphor]])

# in the day of my distress

"whenever I have had troubles"

# To you, my strength, I will sing praises

"To you, my strength" can be combined as one clause. AT: "You are my strength, so I will sing praises to you" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-sentences]])

# my strength

God's being the psalmist's strength represents God protecting him. AT: "my protector" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metonymy]])

# for God is my high tower

High towers are places that people can go to for shelter from their enemies. The psalmist speaks of God protecting him as if God were a strong, safe shelter. AT: "you have protected me like a high tower" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metaphor]])

# the God of covenant faithfulness

The abstract noun "faithfulness" can be translated with an adjective. This can be expressed in a separate sentence. AT: "He is the God who is faithful to his covenant" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-abstractnouns]])

# translationWords

* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/strength]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/watchtower]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/refuge]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/biblicaltimeday]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/praise]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/god]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/covenantfaith]]