# Connecting Statement:

Jesus begins to teach about prayer.

# General Information:

Jesus is talking to a group of people about what they as individuals should and should not do. All occurrences of "you" and "your" in verses 5 and 7 are plural; in verse 6 they are singular, but in some languages they may need to be plural. (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-you]])

# so that they may be seen by people

It is implied that those who see them will give them honor. This can be stated in active form. AT: "so that people will see them and give them honor" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-explicit]] and [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-activepassive]])

# Truly I say to you

"I tell you the truth." This phrase adds emphasis to what Jesus says next.

# enter your inner chamber. Shut the door

"go to a private place" or "go where you can be alone"

# Father who is in secret

Possible meanings are 1) no one can see God. AT: "Father, who is invisible" or 2) God is in that private place with the praying person. AT: "Father, who is with you in private"

# Father

This is an important title for God. (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/guidelines-sonofgodprinciples]])

# your Father who sees in secret

"your Father will see what you do in private and"

# do not make useless repetitions

Possible meanings are 1) the repetitions are useless. AT: "do not keep uselessly saying things over and over again" or 2) the words or sentences are meaningless. AT: "do not keeping repeating meaningless words"

# they will be heard

This can be stated in active form. AT: "their false gods will hear them" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-activepassive]])

# translationWords

* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/pray]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/hypocrite]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/synagogue]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/amen]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/receive]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/reward]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/godthefather]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/gentile]]