# Connecting Statement:

Jesus begins to teach about fasting.

# General Information:

Jesus is talking to a group of people about what they as individuals should or should not do. In verse 16 all occurences of "you" are plural. In verses 17 and 18 where Jesus teaches them how to behave when they fast, all occurrences of "you" and "your" are singular. In some languages those occurences of "you" may also need to be plural. (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-you]])

# Moreover, when you fast

"Also, when you fast"

# they disfigure their faces

The hypocrites would not wash their faces or comb their hair. They did this purposely to draw attention to themselves so that people would see them and give them honor for fasting.

# Truly I say to you

"I tell you the truth." This phrase adds emphasis to what Jesus says next.

# anoint your head

"put oil in your hair" or "groom your hair." To "anoint" the head here is to take normal care of one's hair. It has nothing to do with "Christ" meaning "anointed one." Jesus means that people should look the same whether they are fasting or not.

# Father who is in secret

Possible meanings are 1) no one can see God. AT: "Father, who is invisible" or 2) God is with that person who fasts secretly. AT: "Father, who is with you in private" See how you translated this in [Matthew 6:6](./05.md).

# Father

This is an important title for God. (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/guidelines-sonofgodprinciples]])

# who sees in secret

"who sees what you do in private." See how you translated this in [Matthew 6:6](./05.md).

# translationWords

* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/fast]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/hypocrite]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/amen]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/receive]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/reward]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/anoint]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/godthefather]]