# General Information:

Jesus is talking to a group of people about what they as individuals should or should not do. All instances of "you" and "your" are plural. (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-you]])

# Which one of you by being anxious can add one cubit to his lifespan?

Jesus uses a question to teach the people. Here to "add one cubit to his lifespan" is a metaphor for adding time to how long a person will live. AT: "None of you can, just by worrying, add years to your life. You cannot add even one minute to your life! So you should not worry about things you need." (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-rquestion]] and [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metaphor]])

# one cubit

A cubit is a measure of a little less than half a meter. (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/translate-bdistance]])

# Why are you anxious about clothing?

Jesus uses a question to teach the people. AT: "You should not be worried about what you will wear." (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-rquestion]])

# Think about

"Consider"

# lilies ... They do not work, and they do not spin cloth ... was not clothed like one of these

Jesus speaks about the lilies as if they were people who wore clothes. The lilies being clothed is a metaphor for the plants having beautiful and colorful flowers. (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-personification]] and [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metaphor]])

# lilies

A lily is a kind of wild flower. (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/translate-unknown]])

# I say to you

This adds emphasis to what Jesus says next.

# was not clothed like one of these

This can be stated in active form. AT: "did not wear clothes that are as beautiful as these lilies" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-activepassive]])

# translationWords

* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/names/solomon]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/glory]]