# Seek Yahweh

Here "Seek Yahweh" represents asking him for help. AT: "Ask Yahweh for help" or "Ask me, Yahweh, for help" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metaphor]])

# he will break out like fire

Here "break out like a fire" represents destroying things as fire destroys things. AT: "he will become like a fire that breaks out suddenly and destroys everything" or "he will destroy everything like a fire" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-simile]])

# the house of Joseph

This phrase is a metonym for the descendants of Joseph. Here it represents the northern kingdom of Israel, whose two largest tribes were the descendants of Joseph. AT: "the descendants of Joseph" or "Israel" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metonymy]] and [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-synecdoche]])

# It will devour

The word "it" refers to the fire, and "devour" represents destroying everything. God destroying everything is spoken of as if a fire were to destroy everything. AT: "It will destroy everything" or "He will destroy everything" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metaphor]])

# there will be no one to quench it

"there will no one to stop it" or "there will be no one to stop him from destroying everything"

# turn justice into a bitter thing

Here "a bitter thing" represents actions that harm people, and "turn justice into a bitter thing" represents harming people rather than doing for them what is just. AT: "say that they are doing what is just, but instead they harm people" or "refuse to do what is just and harm people instead" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metaphor]])

# throw righteousness down to the ground

This represents treating righteousness as if it were worthless. AT: "treat righteousness as though it were as unimportant as dirt" or "you despise what is righteous" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metaphor]])

# translationWords

* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/fire]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/devour]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/quench]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/justice]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/righteous]]