# Why do you long for the day of Yahweh?

God uses this question to rebuke the people for saying that they want the day of Yahweh to be soon. This can be translated as a statement. AT: "You long for the day of Yahweh." or "You should not long for the day of Yahweh!" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-rquestion]])

# It will be darkness and not light

Here "darkness" represents a time when disasters happen, and "light" represents a time when good things happen. AT: "It will be a time of darkness and disaster, not of light and blessing" or "On that day there will be disasters, not blessings" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metaphor]])

# Will not the day of Yahweh be darkness and not light?

This question emphasizes that bad things will happen then. It can be expressed as a statement. AT: "The day of Yahweh will certainly be darkness and not light!" or "Bad things, not good things, will certainly happen on the day of Yahweh!" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-rquestion]])

# Gloom and no brightness?

The words "Will not the day of Yahweh be" is understood from the previous sentence. Like the previous question, it emphasizes that terrible things, not good things, will happen on the day of Yahweh. It can be expressed as a statement. AT: "It will be a time of when terrible things, not good things, will happen. (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-rquestion]] and [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-parallelism]])

# translationWords

* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/dayofthelord]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/yahweh]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/darkness]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/light]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/lion]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/serpent]]