# Did you bring me sacrifices ... Israel?

Possible meanings are 1) God uses this question to rebuke them because they did not offer sacrifices. AT: "You did not bring me sacrifices ... Israel," or 2) God uses this question to remind them that the sacrifices were not the most important part about their relationship. AT: "You did not have to bring me sacrifices ... Israel." (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-rquestion]])

# Did you bring

God speaks as though the Israelites he is speaking to were part of the group that wandered in the wilderness. AT: "Did your ancestors bring" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metonymy]])

# house of Israel

The word "house" is a metonym for the family that lives in the house. In this case it refers to Israel's descendants. See how you translated it in [Amos 5:1](./01.md). AT: "you people of Israel" or "you Israelite people group" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metonymy]])

# You have lifted up the images of Sikkuth ... and Kaiwan

Here "lifted up the images" represents worshiping them. AT: "You have worshiped the images of Sikkuth ... and Kaiwan" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metonymy]])

# Sikkuth ... Kaiwan

These are the names of two false gods. The people had made images to represent them. (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/translate-names]])

# Kaiwan

Some versions write this as "Kiyyun."

# translationWords

* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/sacrifice]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/desert]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/house]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/israel]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/king]]