# Connecting Statement:

Ananias goes to the house where Saul is staying. After Saul is healed, the story shifts from Ananias back to Saul.

# General Information:

The word "you" here is singular and refers to Saul. (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-you]])

# So Ananias departed, and entered into the house

It may be helpful to state that Ananias went to the house before he entered into it. AT: "So Ananias went, and after he found the house where Saul was, he entered it"

# Laying his hands on him

Ananias put his hands on Saul. This was a symbol of giving a blessing to Saul. (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/translate-symaction]])

# so that you might receive your sight and be filled with the Holy Spirit

This can be stated in active form. AT: "has sent me so that you might see again and that the Holy Spirit might fill you" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-activepassive]])

# something like scales fell

"something that appeared like fish scales fell"

# he received his sight

"he was able to see again"

# he arose and was baptized

This can be stated in active form. AT: "he got up and Ananias baptized him" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-activepassive]])

# translationWords

* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/brother]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/names/paul]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/lord]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/jesus]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/filled]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/holyspirit]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/baptize]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/disciple]]