# General Information:

Here only the second "he" refers to Jesus, the Son of God. The first "he" and the other ones refer to Saul.

# Son of God

This is an important title for Jesus. (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/guidelines-sonofgodprinciples]])

# All who heard him

The word "All" is a generalization. AT: "Those who heard him" or "Many who heard him" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-hyperbole]])

# Is not this the man who destroyed those in Jerusalem who called on this name?

This is a rhetorical and negative question that emphasizes that Saul was indeed the man who had persecuted the believers. AT: "This is the man who destroyed those in Jerusalem who called on this name Jesus!" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-rquestion]])

# this name

Here "name" refers to Jesus. AT: "the name of Jesus" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metonymy]])

# causing distress among the Jews

They were distressed in the sense that they could not find a way to refute Saul's arguments that Jesus was the Christ.

# translationWords

* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/proclaim]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/jesus]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/synagogue]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/sonofgod]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/amazed]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/names/jerusalem]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/call]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/name]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/chiefpriests]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/power]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/jew]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/christ]]