# But there is

The word "But" connects this verse to the previous verse about the hypocrisy of the Pharisees. (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/writing-connectingwords]])

# there is nothing concealed that will not be revealed

"everything that is hidden will be shown." This can be stated in active form. AT: "people will find out about everything that people do secretly" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-activepassive]])

# nothing hidden that will not be known

This means the same thing as the first part of the sentence in order to emphasize its truth. It can also be stated in active form. AT: "people will learn about everything that others try to hide" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-parallelism]] and [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-activepassive]])

# whatever you have said in the darkness

"Darkness" here is a metonym for "private." AT: "whatever you have said in private (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metonymy]])

# will be heard in the light

This can be stated in active form. AT: "people will hear in the light" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-activepassive]])

# spoken in the ear

This can be stated in active form. AT: "whispered to another person" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-synecdoche]])

# in the inner rooms

"in a closed room." This refers to private speech. AT: "in privacy" or "secretly"

# will be proclaimed

"will be shouted loudly." This can be stated in active form. AT: "people will proclaim" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-activepassive]])

# upon the housetops

Houses in Israel had flat roofs, so people could go up and stand on top of them. If readers would be distracted trying to imagine how people would get up on the house tops, this could also be translated with a more general expression, such as "from a high place so that everyone will be able to hear."

# translationWords

* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/reveal]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/proclaim]]