# General Information:

This is a break in Jesus' teachings. A man asks Jesus to do something and Jesus responds to him.

# divide the inheritance with me

In that culture, inheritances came from the father, usually after the father had died. You may need to make explicit that the speaker's father had probably died. AT: "share my father's property with me now that our father is dead" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-explicit]])

# Man

Possible meanings are 1) this is simply a way to address a stranger or 2) Jesus is rebuking the man. Your language might have a way of addressing people in either of these ways. Some people do not translate this word at all.

# who made me a judge or a mediator over you?

Jesus uses a question to rebuke the man. Some languages would use the plural form for "you" or "your." AT: "I am not your judge or mediator." (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-rquestion]])

# He said to them

The word "them" here probably refers to the whole crowd of people. AT: "And Jesus said to the crowd"

# keep yourselves from all greedy desires

"guard yourself from every form of greed." AT: "do not allow yourself to love having things" or "do not let the urge to have more things control you"

# a person's life

This is a general statement of fact. It does not refer to any specific person. Some languages have a way of expressing that.

# the abundance of his possessions

"how many things he owns" or "how much wealth he has"

# translationWords

* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/teacher]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/inherit]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/judgeposition]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/mediator]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/possess]]