# As an apricot tree ... the young men

People enjoy the fruit of an apricot tree, but the trees of the forest do not bear fruit. The woman enjoys being with the man, but not with the other young men. (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-simile]])

# apricot tree

a tree that produces a small yellow fruit that is very sweet. If your readers will not know what this is, you could use the word for another fruit tree or the general word "fruit tree."

# the forest

The Hebrew word here refers to land where trees grow for which people have no use.

# my beloved

This phrase refers to the man whom the woman loves. In some languages it may be more natural for her to refer to him as "my lover." See how you translated this in [Song of Solomon 1:13](./12.md). AT: "my dear one" or "my lover"  

# I sit down under his shadow with great delight

The woman finds great joy and comfort in being so near to the man. (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metaphor]])

# his fruit is sweet to my taste

The woman enjoys eating sweet fruit, and she enjoys being near to the man. (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metaphor]])

# the house of wine

Possible meanings are 1) the very large room where the king would serve many people large meals with wine or 2) a small booth in a vineyard where the man and woman could be alone together.

# his banner over me was love

Possible meanings are 1) the banner is a metonym for a military escort. And, the military escort is a metaphor that represents the man's love which gives courage to the woman who was nervous to enter the large room where the king served many people. AT: "but his loving protection guided me and gave me courage" or 2) the woman knew that the man wanted to make love to her from the way he looked at her. AT: "he looked at me lovingly" or "when he looked at me, I knew he wanted to make love to me" or 3) they made love. AT: "he lovingly covered me" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metonymy]] and [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metaphor]])

# translationWords

* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/beloved]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/shadow]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/fruit]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/love]]