# his master

The word "his" refers to Uriah and the word "master" refers to David.

# Have you not come from a journey? Why did you not go down to your house?

This rhetorical question is used to show David's surprise that Uriah did not visit his wife. This can be written as a statement. AT: "After coming from such a long journey, you should have gone down to your house." (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-rquestion]])

# Israel and Judah

This refers to their armies. AT: "the armies of Israel and Judah" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-synecdoche]])

# How then can I go into my house ... with my wife?

This rhetorical question is used to emphasize Uriah's refusal to visit his wife and can be translated as a statement. AT: "It would be wrong for me to go into my house ... with my wife while the other soldiers in my army are in danger." (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-rquestion]] and [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-explicit]])

# As sure as you are alive, I will not do this

Uriah swears a strong promise that he will not go home to his wife as long as the rest of the soldiers are at war. He makes this promise by comparing the truth of his promise to the certainty that the king was alive. AT: "I solemnly promise that I will not do this!" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-simile]])

# translationWords

* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/lord]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/arkofthecovenant]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/israel]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/judah]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/tent]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/joab]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/life]]