# General Information:

The narrator tells about what king Amaziah did after his father King Joash was murdered.

# Yet he did not put the sons of the murderers to death

King Amaziah did not order his servants to kill the children of the men who killed his father. If he was going to have them executed though, he would have commanded his servants do it, he would not have done it himself. AT: "But he did not tell his servants to execute those officials' children" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-synecdoche]])

# The fathers must not be put to death for their children, neither must the children be put to death for their parents

This can be stated in active form. AT: "People must not kill the fathers for the sins of their children, and they must not kill the children for the sins of their parents" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-activepassive]])

# every person must be put to death for his own sin

This can be stated in active form. AT: "every person must die for his own sin" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-activepassive]])

# He killed

Here "He" refers to his army. AT: "Amaziah's army killed" or "Amaziah's soldiers killed" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-synecdoche]])

# ten thousand soldiers

"10,000 soldiers" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/translate-numbers]])

# Valley of Salt

This is the name of a place that is located south of the Dead Sea.

# he also took Sela in war

Here the word "he" refers to King amaziah and represents himself and his army. AT: "King Amaziah's army captured the city of Sela" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-synecdoche]])

# Sela ... Joktheel

They renamed the city of Sela. The new name was Joktheel. (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/translate-names]])

# translationWords

* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/death]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/written]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/lawofmoses]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/moses]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/command]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/sin]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/edom]]