# Then Amaziah sent messengers to Jehoash son of Jehoahaz son of Jehu king of Israel, saying, "Come, let us meet each other face to face in battle."

Here "each other" also included their armies. AT: "Then Amaziah sent messengers to King Jehoash of Israel, saying, 'Come here and let us and our armies fight each other in battle.'" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-synecdoche]])

# A thistle that was in Lebanon ... trampled down the thistle

This is a word picture and a riddle. A cedar tree is great and a thistle is small and worthless. Jehoash compares himself to the cedar and Amaziah to the thistle and warns Amaziah not to attack. If you have a similar comparison in your own language, you can use it. (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metaphor]])

# thistle

"a bush with thorns"

# saying, 'Give your daughter to my son for a wife,'

This direct quotation can be stated as an indirect quotation. AT: "asking the cedar to give his daughter to the thistle's son for a wife" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-quotations]])

# You have indeed attacked Edom

This is the warning part of Jehoash's message to Amaziah. "Amaziah, you have definitely defeated Edom"

# your heart has lifted you up

This is an idiom that refers to being proud. AT: "you are very proud of what you have done" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-idiom]])

# Take pride in your victory

"Be content with your victory"

# for why should you cause yourself trouble and fall

Jehoash uses this question to warn Amaziah not to attack him. AT: "for you should not cause trouble for yourself and suffer defeat" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-rquestion]])