# in the eleventh year

"in year 11." This means the eleventh year after King Jehoiachin was taken into exile in Babylon. AT: "in the eleventh year of the exile of King Jehoiachin" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/translate-ordinal]] and [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-explicit]])

# on the first day of the month

"on day 1 of the month." It is uncertain which month of the Hebrew calendar Ezekiel meant. (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/translate-ordinal]])

# the word of Yahweh came

This is an idiom that is used to introduce something that God told his prophets or his people. See how you translated this in [Ezekiel 3:16](../03/16.md). AT: "Yahweh spoke this message" or "Yahweh spoke these words" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-idiom]])

# Son of man

"Son of a human being" or "Son of humanity." God calls Ezekiel this to emphasize that Ezekiel is only a human being. God is eternal and powerful, but humans are not. See how you translated this in [Ezekiel 2:1](../02/01.md). AT: "Mortal person" or "Human"

# Tyre has said against Jerusalem

Here the city names "Tyre" and "Jerusalem" represent the people of those cities. AT: "the people of Tyre have said against the people of Jerusalem" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metonymy]])

# Aha!

The word "Aha" is a sound people make when they discover something. AT: "Yes!" or "This is great!" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-exclamations]])

# The gates of the people are broken

The people of Tyre use these words to refer to Jerusalem as if it were a city gate through which traders from the surrounding nations pass. This can be stated in active form. AT: "Armies have broken down the gates of the people" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metaphor]] and [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-activepassive]])

# She has turned to me

Here the word "she" refers to the word "gates" which have "turned" on their hinges to open to Tyre. This phrase means that Tyre has now replaced Jerusalem as the city through which the traders from many nations pass. AT: "The gateway has opened to me" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-explicit]])

# I will be filled up

Here to be "filled up" represents being prosperous. AT: "I will become prosperous" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metonymy]])

# she is ruined

"Jerusalem is ruined"

# translationWords

* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/biblicaltimeyear]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/biblicaltimeday]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/biblicaltimemonth]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/wordofgod]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/sonofman]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/names/tyre]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/names/jerusalem]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/gate]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/peoplegroup]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/ruin]]