# Connecting Statement:

Yahweh continues to give Ezekiel his message to Tyre.

# She will become

The city of Tyre is spoken of here as if it were a woman. AT: "Tyre will become" or "It will become" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-personification]])

# a place for nets to dry out in the midst of the sea

Part of Tyre was an island. This expression is a metonym for the results of Tyre's destruction. AT: "an empty island used for drying fishing nets" or "a deserted island where people dry out their fishing nets" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metonymy]])

# this is the Lord Yahweh's declaration

Yahweh speaks of himself by name to express the certainty of what he is declaring. See how you translated this in [Ezekiel 5:11](../05/11.md). AT: "this is what the Lord Yahweh has declared" or "this is what I, the Lord Yahweh, have declared" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-123person]])

# she will become plunder for the nations

"Plunder" means things that people steal or take by force. Here Tyre becoming plunder represents its wealth being carried off by other nations. AT: "the armies of the nations will take away every valuable thing from Tyre" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metonymy]])

# Her daughters who are in the fields will be slaughtered by the swords

This can be stated in active form. AT: "The enemy armies will slaughter with swords her daughters who are in the fields" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-activepassive]])

# Her daughters who are in the fields

Possible meanings are 1) "Her daughters" were the young women of Tyre who were working in the fields or 2) "Her daughters" is a metonym for nearby towns and villages on the mainland that supported the main city of Tyre. AT: "Her daughter communities who are on the mainland" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metonymy]])

# know that I am Yahweh

When Yahweh says that people will know that he is Yahweh, he is implying that they will know that he is the one true God who has supreme authority and power. See how you translated this in [Ezekiel 6:7](../06/06.md). AT: "understand that I am Yahweh, the one true God" or "realize that I, Yahweh, have supreme power and authority" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-explicit]])