# Connecting Statement:

Yahweh continues giving Ezekiel his message to Tyre.

# General Information:

The word "They" in these verses refers to the soldiers in the armies of Nebuchadnezzar. The words "your" and "you" refer to the city of Tyre.

# They will plunder your riches and loot your merchandise

The phrases "plunder your riches" and "loot your merchandise" mean about the same thing and are repeated for emphasis. (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-parallelism]])

# luxurious

expensive and comfortable

# Your stones, your timber, and the rubble

These refer to what is left after the walls and homes are torn down.

# into the waters

"into the sea"

# The sound of your harps will be heard no more

This can be stated in active form. AT: "No one will hear the sound of your harps anymore" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-activepassive]])

# I will make you a bare rock

This metaphor describes the results after Yahweh completely destroys Tyre. See how you translated a similar phrase in [Ezekiel 26:4](./03.md). (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metaphor]])

# you will become a place where nets are spread out to dry

This metaphor also describes the results after Yahweh destroys Tyre. See how you translated a similar phrase in [Ezekiel 26:5](./05.md). (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metaphor]])

# you will become a place where nets

This can be stated in active form. AT: "I will make you a place where nets" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-activepassive]])

# translationWords

* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/harp]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/declare]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/lordyahweh]]