# Connecting Statement:

Yahweh continues giving Ezekiel his message to Tyre.

# General Information:

In these verses, "They" refers to the "princes of the sea" in the previous verse, and "you" refers to Tyre.

# lift up

"sing"

# How you, who were inhabited by sailors, have been destroyed

This can be stated in active form. AT: "How your enemies have destroyed you—you who were inhabited by sailors" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-activepassive]])

# spread a terror about themselves upon everyone who lived near them

The abstract noun "terror" can be translated using the adjective "terrified." AT: "caused all the people around them to be terrified" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-abstractnouns]])

# Now the coasts tremble on the day of your downfall. The islands in the sea are terrified, because you are no longer in your place

These two lines are similar in meaning and emphasize the response of the surrounding people to the destruction of Tyre. (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-parallelism]])

# Now the coasts tremble

Here "the coasts" represents the people living there. AT: "Now the people of the coastlands tremble" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metonymy]])

# The islands in the sea are terrified

Here "the islands in the sea" represents the people living there. AT: "The people of the islands are terrified" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metonymy]])

# you are no longer in your place

The destruction of Tyre is spoken of as if it was a person who had died. AT: "you have departed" or "you exist no more" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-personification]])

# translationWords

* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/lament]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/life]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/terror]]