# Connecting Statement:

Yahweh continues giving Ezekiel his message to Tyre.

# When I make you

The word "you" here refers to the city of Tyre. In the original language "you" here is feminine singular.

# When I make you a desolate city, like the other cities that are not inhabited

Here Tyre is compared to other cities that no longer had people living in them. (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-simile]])

# the deeps

Here "the deeps" means the deep waters of the sea. AT: "the deep waters" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-nominaladj]])

# then I will bring you down to the people of ancient times, like the others who have gone down into the pit; for I will make you live in the lowest realms of the earth as in ruins of ancient times

What Yahweh would do to Tyre is compared to people going to the grave and cities falling into ruin. (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-personification]] and [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-simile]])

# the pit

This refers to the grave. Because the grave was thought to be the entrance to the world of the dead, the pit also represents that world. (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metonymy]])

# stand in the land of the living

This represents being restored to the city's former existence. (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metaphor]])

# I will place disaster on you

The abstract noun "disaster" can be translated using the adjective "terrible" or the verb "destroy." AT: "I will bring you to a terrible end" or "I will destroy you" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-abstractnouns]])

# Then you will be sought, but you will never be found ever again

This can be stated in active form. AT: "Then people will seek you but not be able to find you ever again" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-activepassive]])

# translationWords

* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/lordyahweh]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/desolate]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/water]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/pit]]