# General Information:

Most of the text of verses 9-14 is symbolic language with parallel lines that have similar meaning. For this reason, the ULB and UDB present them in poetic form. (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/writing-symlanguage]] and [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-parallelism]])

# thrones were set in place

This can be stated in active form. AT: "someone set thrones in their places" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-activepassive]])

# the Ancient of Days

This is a title for God that means he is eternal. AT: "the One Who Has Lived Forever" or "the One Who Has Always Lived"

# took his seat ... His clothing ... the hair of his head

This passage describes God as sitting down, with clothing and hair like a person. This does not mean that God really is like this, but it is how Daniel saw God in a vision.

# took his seat

This is an idiom that means he sat down. AT: "sat down on his throne" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-idiom]])

# His clothing was as white as snow

His clothing is compared to snow to show that it was very white. AT: "His clothing was very white"

# the hair of his head was like pure wool

Something about God's hair looked like pure wool. Possible meanings are that 1) it was very white or 2) it was thick and curly. (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-simile]])

# pure wool

"clean wool" or "wool that is washed"

# His throne was flames ... its wheels were burning fire

This describes the throne of God and its wheels as if they were made of fire. The words "flames" and "burning fire" mean basically the same thing and can be translated the same way.

# its wheels

It is unclear why God's throne is described as having wheels. Thrones normally do not have wheels, but the text clearly states that this throne has some kind of wheels. Use a general term for "wheels" if possible.