# General Information:

Most of the text of verses 9-14 is symbolic language with parallel lines that have similar meaning. For this reason, the ULB and UDB present them in poetic form. (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/writing-symlanguage]] and [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-parallelism]])

# I saw one coming ... like a son of man

The person that Daniel saw was not a normal man, but had a human figure like a man. "I also saw that night someone coming who resembled a son of man, that is, he had a human figure" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-simile]])

# with the clouds of heaven

"with the clouds of the sky"

# the Ancient of Days

This refers to God who is eternal. See how you translated this title in [Daniel 7:9](./09.md)

# was presented before him

This can be stated in active form. AT: "they presented this son of man to the Ancient of Days" or "he stood before him" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-activepassive]])

# Authority to rule and glory and royal power were given to him

This can be stated in active form. AT: "The one who looked like a son of man received authority to rule, glory, and royal power" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-activepassive]])

# royal power

This, here, refers to "authority."

# peoples, nations, and languages

Here "nations" and "languages" represent people from different nations who speak different languages. See how you translated this in [Daniel 3:4](../03/03.md). AT: "people from different nations and who speak different languages" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metonymy]])

# will not pass away ... will never be destroyed

These two phrases mean the same thing. (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-parallelism]])

# that will never be destroyed

This can be stated in active form. AT: "that no one will ever destroy" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-activepassive]])

# translationWords

* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/vision]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/heaven]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/sonofman]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/authority]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/glory]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/royal]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/peoplegroup]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/nation]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/serve]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/eternity]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/kingdom]]