# General Information:

Most of the text of verses 23-27 is symbolic language. For this reason, the ULB presents them in poetic form. (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/writing-symlanguage]])

# This is what that person said

This is the person that Daniel approached in [Daniel 7:16](./15.md).

# that person said

"that person answered"

# As for the fourth animal ... As for the ten horns

"Concerning the fourth animal ... Concerning the ten horns" or "Now, about the fourth animal ... Now, about the ten horns"

# It will devour ... it into pieces

This does not mean the fourth kingdom will destroy the planet, but that it will brutally attack, conquer, and destroy all other kingdoms on earth. (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metaphor]])

# out of this kingdom ten kings will arise

They will rule one after the other. This can be stated explicitly. AT: "ten kings will rule over this fourth kingdom, one after another" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-explicit]])

# another will arise after them

This other king is not one of the ten. It may be helpful to refer to him as "the eleventh king." AT: "after that an eleventh king will become powerful" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-explicit]])

# He will be different from the previous ones

"He will be different from the other ten kings"

# he will conquer the three kings

He will defeat three of the original ten kings. It may be helpful to state that those three kings are represented by the three horns that were pulled out. AT: "he will defeat the three kings that were represented by the three horns that were pulled out" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-explicit]])

# translationWords

* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/kingdom]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/earth]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/devour]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/king]]