# General Information:

The man in Daniel's vision continues talking to Daniel.

# General Information:

Most of the text of verses 23-27 is symbolic language. For this reason, the ULB presents them in poetic form. (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/writing-symlanguage]])

# He will speak words against the Most High

This means that the newest king will openly disagree with and say bad things about the Most High. (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-idiom]])

# He will try ... into his hand

The words "He" and "his" refer to the newest king, not the Most High.

# the holy people

"God's holy people"

# change the festivals and the law

Both terms refer to the law of Moses. The festivals were an important part of the religion of Israel in the Old Testament.

# These things will be given into his hand

Here "his hand" refers to his control. This can be stated in active form. AT: "The newest king will control the religous festivals and laws" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metonymy]] and [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-activepassive]])

# one year, two years, and half a year

This means "three and half years." This is not the normal way the Israelites counted. Try to translate it in a way that preserves this way of counting. AT: "one year plus two years plus six months"

# the court will be in session

This means that the judge will be ready to investigate evidence and make his judgment. AT: "the judge will judge" or "The judge will sit down"

# they will take his royal power away

"the members of the court will take the royal power away from the newest king"

# royal power

This, here, refers to "authority." See how you translated this in [Daniel 7:14](./13.md).

# to be consumed and destroyed at the end

This can be stated in active form. AT: "and consume and destroy it in the end" or "and completely destroy his royal power in the end" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-activepassive]])

# translationWords

* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/mosthigh]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/oppress]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/holy]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/festival]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/lawofmoses]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/royal]]