# Has Yahweh attacked Jacob and Israel as he attacked those nations who attacked them?

The question is used to contrast the severity of God's punishment. AT: "Yahweh has certainly punished the enemy nations more severely than he punished the people of Israel." (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-rquestion]])

# Jacob ... Israel

These represent the descendants of Jacob. (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metonymy]])

# Have Jacob and Israel been killed as in the slaughter of those nations that were killed by them?

This question too is used to contrast the severity of God's punishment. This can be stated in active form. AT: "Yahweh has not killed the people of Israel like they killed their enemies from other nations." (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-activepassive]] and [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-rquestion]])

# In exact measure you have contended

Here "you" refers to God. Yahweh punishing his people as much as they needed is spoken of as if God's punishment were something that could be measured. AT: "But you did punish them as much as was needed" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-you]] and [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metaphor]])

# sending Jacob and Israel away

This represents the descendants of Jacob. AT: "sending the Israelites away" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metonymy]])

# he drove them away with his fierce breath in the day of the east wind

Yahweh's power to send his people away to a foreign country is spoken of as if Yahweh used his breath to blow them to a foreign country. AT: "the power of Yahweh drove them out like a fierce wind from the east" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metaphor]])