# For the fortified city is ... consumes its branches

Here Isaiah describes an event that will happen in the future as if it already happened. This emphasizes that it certainly will happen. (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-pastforfuture]])

# For the fortified city is desolate, the habitation is deserted and forsaken like the wilderness

This can be stated in active form. AT: "The cities that were strong and had many people living in them will become empty like a desert" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-activepassive]])

# the fortified city ... the habitation

This does not refer to a specific city or habitation but to cities and habitations in general. (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-genericnoun]])

# a calf feeds, and there he lies down and consumes

Here "calf" represents calves or cattle in general. AT: "calves feed, and there they lie down and consume" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-genericnoun]])

# When the boughs ... not a people of understanding

The people becoming so weak because they disobey Yahweh so that enemies can easily destroy them is spoken of as if they are dry branches that women break off of a tree. (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metaphor]])

# When the boughs are withered, they will be broken off. Women will come and make fires with them

This can be stated in active form. AT: "When the branches wither, women will come and break them off and make fires with them" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-activepassive]])

# this is not a people of understanding

This can be made more explicit. AT: "this is not a people who understands Yahweh or his law" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-explicit]])

# a people

Possible meanings are 1) "people" refers to the people of Israel or 2) "people" refers the people of foreign nations who oppress the people of Israel.

# Therefore their Maker will not have compassion on them, and he who made them will not be merciful to them

Both clauses mean the same thing. AT: "Because they do not understand, Yahweh, the one who made them, will not be merciful to them" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-parallelism]])

# translationWords

* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/desolate]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/forsaken]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/desert]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/cow]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/peoplegroup]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/compassion]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/mercy]]