# It will come about

This phrase marks an important event that will happen.

# on that day

"at that time"

# Yahweh will thresh

Yahweh gathering his people to bring them back from the foreign nations to the land of Israel is spoken of as if he were threshing wheat to separate the grain from the chaff. (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metaphor]])

# from the Euphrates River to the Wadi of Egypt

Isaiah mentions the Euphrates River and the Wadi of Egypt to mean that Yahweh will bring back the people of Israel who were exiled in lands near those waters, that is, Assyria and Egypt. The Euphrates River is northeast of Israel, and the Wadi of Egypt is southwest of Israel.

# the Wadi of Egypt

"the brook of Egypt"

# you ... will be gathered together one by one

This can be stated in active form. AT: "Yahweh will gather you together one by one" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-activepassive]])

# a great trumpet will be blown

This can be stated in active form. AT: "someone will blow a trumpet loudly" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-activepassive]])

# the perishing ones in the land of Assyria will come, and the outcasts in the land of Egypt

The understood information can be stated clearly. AT: "those who are in exile and dying in the land of Assyria and the land of Egypt will return to the land of Israel" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-ellipsis]])

# holy mountain

The "holy mountain" is Mount Zion, in Jerusalem. See how you translated this in [Isaiah 11:9](../11/08.md).