# built an altar to Yahweh

"built an altar dedicated to Yahweh" or "built an altar for worshiping Yahweh." He may have built it with stones.

# clean animals ... clean birds

Here "clean" means that God allowed these animals to be used in sacrifice. Some animals were not used for sacrifices and were called "unclean."

# offered burnt offerings

Noah killed the animals and then completely burned them up as an offering to God. AT: "burned the animals as offerings to Yahweh"

# pleasing aroma

This refers to the good smell of the roasted meat.

# said in his heart

Here the word "heart" refers to God's thoughts and emotions.

# curse the ground

"do very serious harm to the earth"

# because of mankind

This can be made more explicit: "because mankind is sinful." (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-explicit]])

# the intentions of their hearts is evil from childhood

"from their earliest years they tend to do evil things" or "when they are young, they want to do evil things"

# the intentions of their hearts

Here the word "hearts" refers to people's thoughts, emotions, desires, and will. AT: "their tendency" or "their habit"

# from childhood

This refers to an older child. AT: "from their youth"

# While the earth remains

"While the earth lasts" or "As long as the earth exists"

# seed time

"the season for planting"

# cold and heat, summer and winter

These expressions both refer to two major weather conditions in the year. Translators may use local expressions. (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-merism]])

# summer

the hot, dry time of the year

# winter

the cool, wet or snowy time of the year

# will not cease

"will not cease to exist" or "will not cease to occur." This can be expressed in a positive manner. AT: "will continue" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-doublenegatives]])

# translationWords

* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/altar]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/yahweh]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/clean]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/sacrifice]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/burntoffering]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/heart]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/curse]]