# General Information:

Jeremiah often wrote prophecy in the form of poetry. Hebrew poetry uses different kinds of parallelism. (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/writing-poetry]] and [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-parallelism]])

# Rush about through the streets

"Go quickly through the streets"

# Then look and think about this

"look and find out"

# city squares

broad and open places in a city where people can gather

# who is acting justly

"who does what is just"

# Although they say

The word "they" refers to the people of Jerusalem.

# As Yahweh lives

"as surely as Yahweh is alive." The people use this expression to show that what they say next is certainly true. This is a way of making a solemn promise. See how you translated this in [Jeremiah 4:2](../04/01.md). AT: "I solemnly swear" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-idiom]])

# do your eyes not look for faithfulness?

Jeremiah uses this question to emphasize that what Yahweh really wants is faithfulness. Wanting people to be faithful is spoken of as looking for faithfulness. AT: "you look for faithfulness." or "you want people to be faithful." (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-rquestion]] and [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metaphor]])

# You struck the people, but they do not feel pain.

God punished his people in various ways. Here it is spoken of as if he hit them. AT: "You punish the people, but they do not pay attention" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metaphor]])

# they still refuse to receive discipline

Here "to receive discipline" represents learning from discipline to do what is right. AT: "they still refuse to learn their lesson" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metaphor]])

# They make their faces harder than rock

Hard faces represents the expression on their faces that shows that they are stubborn. The simile "harder than rock" shows that the people are extremely stubborn. AT: "They are extremely stubborn" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metonymy]] and [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-simile]])

# translationWords

* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/jerusalem]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/justice]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/faithful]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/forgive]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/life]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/yahweh]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/oath]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/peopleofgod]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/receive]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/discipline]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/face]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/repent]]