# So I said

Jeremiah is speaking.

# But they all broke their yoke together; they all tore apart the chains that bound them to God.

The yoke and chains represent the law which bind God and his people. (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metaphor]])

# So a lion ... A wolf ... A lurking panther

These are dangerous animals that can kill people. Possible meanings are that 1) this really is about wild animals killing people or 2) these wild animals are metaphors for enemy armies. (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metaphor]])

# So a lion ... A wolf ... A lurking panther ... torn apart

One possible meaning is that these are metaphors for enemy armies who will attack Judah. AT: "Like a lion from the thicket, a wolf from the Arabah, and a lurking panther, enemy armies will come against their cities, attack them, and destroy them. Anyone who goes outside his city will be killed" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metaphor]])

# thicket

a set of bushes that grew closely together.

# wolf

a large wild dangerous dog

# lurking

watching for an opportunity to attack

# panther

a large wild dangerous cat

# For their transgressions increase

The abstract noun "transgressions" can be translated with the verb "sin." AT: "For they sin much" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-abstractnouns]])

# Their acts of faithlessness are unlimited

The abstract nouns in "acts of faithlessness" can be translated as "the faithless things they do." AT: "The faithless things they do are many" or "They do many faithless things" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-abstractnouns]])