# Why should I pardon these people?

Yahweh uses this question to emphasize that he has no reason to pardon these people. AT: "Because of the things that they do, I cannot pardon these people." (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-rquestion]])

# these people

the people of Jerusalem

# Your sons

Yahweh is speaking to Jerusalem as though she were a woman who had children. Jerusalem's "sons" represent the people of Jerusalem. AT: "The people of Jerusalem" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-personification]])

# I fed them fully

Providing all they needed is spoken of as feeding them. AT: "I gave them everything they needed" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metaphor]])

# they committed adultery and walked in great numbers to the houses of prostitutes

This may be a metaphor for being unfaithful to God and worshiping idols, but idol worship also included prostitution. AT: "they were unfaithful to me and went in large numbers to the houses of prostitutes" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metaphor]])

# walked in great numbers to the houses of prostitutes

"went in large groups to the houses of prostitutes" or "large groups of them went to the houses of prostitutes"

# They were horses in heat ... neighed to his neighbor's wife

Because the God speaks of them as if they were horses that wanted to mate with other horses. AT: "They were like horses in heat ... neighed to his neighbor's wife" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metaphor]])

# in heat

ready to mate

# mate

when animals breed to reproduce

# Each man neighed to his neighbor's wife

Male horses neigh loudly to female horses when they want to mate with them. AT: "Like horses who mate with more than one horse, these men wanted to sleep with other men's wives" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metaphor]])

# So should I not punish them ... and should I not avenge myself on a nation that is like this?

Yahweh uses this question to emphasize that the things that they are doing are so bad that he will no have mercy but will punish them. AT: "Because they do these things, I will punish them ... I will certainly get revenge for myself against them." (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-rquestion]])

# this is Yahweh's declaration

Yahweh speaks of himself by name to express the certainty of what he is declaring. See how you translated this in [Jeremiah 1:8](../01/07.md). AT: "this is what Yahweh has declared" or "this is what I, Yahweh, have declared" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-123person]])

# translationWords

* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/pardon]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/oath]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/falsegod]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/adultery]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/prostitute]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/horse]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/neighbor]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/punish]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/declare]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/avenge]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/nation]]