# Connecting Statement:

Yahweh continues to speak. Here he speaks to the the enemies of Israel.

# Go up onto her vineyards' terraces

In verses 10-13 Yahweh speaks to Israel's enemies. This can be made clear in the quotation. AT: "You enemies of Israel, go up onto her vineyards' terraces" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-explicit]])

# Go up onto her vineyards' terraces and destroy

Yahweh speaks of Israel and Judah as if they were a vineyard and the people there were vines. AT: "Go up into Israel and Judah, which are like a vineyard to me, and destroy them" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metaphor]])

# do not bring complete destruction to them

"do not completely destroy them"

# Trim their vines, since those vines do not come from Yahweh

The word "their" refers to the vineyards. Yahweh speaks of the people of Israel and Judah as if they were vines. AT: "like farmers who trim the vines of a vineyard, you must remove many of the people of Israel and Judah, because they do not belong to Yahweh" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metaphor]])

# For the houses of Israel and Judah

The word "house" is a metonym for a person's descendants. In this case it refers to the people of the kingdoms of Israel and Judah. AT: "For the people of Israel and Judah" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metonymy]])

# this is Yahweh's declaration

Yahweh speaks of himself by name to express the certainty of what he is declaring. See how you translated this in [Jeremiah 1:8](../01/07.md). AT: "this is what Yahweh has declared" or "this is what I, Yahweh, have declared" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-123person]])

# They have spoken falsely about Yahweh and they said

"They have spoken falsely about Yahweh by saying"

# no harm will come upon us, and we will not see sword or famine

These two sentences say the same thing, the second is more specific than the first. (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-parallelism]])

# no harm will come upon us

The idiom "come upon us" means "happen to us." AT: "No harm will happen to us" or "no one will harm us" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-idiom]])

# we will not see sword or famine

Here "see" is a metaphor for experience, and "sword" is a metonym for war. AT: "we will not experience war or famine" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metaphor]] and [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metonymy]])

# The prophets will become wind

Here "prophets" is a metonym that represents what the prophets say, and "wind" is a metaphor for something that does not do anything. AT: "The prophets words are just noisy wind" or "The prophets make noise like the wind, but what they prophesy will not happen" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metonymy]] and [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metaphor]])

# the word is not in them

Here "the word" refers to God's message. AT: "God's message is not in them" or "the messages that they speak are not from God" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-explicit]])

# so let what they say be done to them

It can be stated clearly what kinds of things the prophets were talking about. AT: "so let the harm that the prophets talk about come to them" or "since the prophets say that bad things will happen to us, let those bad things happen to the prophets" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-explicit]])

# translationWords

* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/vineyard]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/vine]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/yahweh]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/names/kingdomofisrael]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/names/kingdomofjudah]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/betray]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/declare]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/evil]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/sword]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/famine]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/prophet]]