# Because you

The word "you" refers to the people of Israel and Judah.

# have said this

See what the people said in [Jeremiah 5:12](./10.md).

# see

"look" or "listen." This word adds emphasis to what is said next. AT: "pay attention to what I am about to tell you" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-explicit]])

# I am about to place my word in your mouth

Here "place my word in your mouth" represents causing Jeremiah to speak God's message. AT: "I will cause you to speak my message" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metaphor]])

# It will be like a fire, and this people will be like wood

Yahweh speaks of his message as if it were a fire, and of his people as if they were wood. (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-simile]])

# For it will consume them

"For my message will consume them." Yahweh's message was about how he would punish his people, so he speaks as if his message would destroy them as a fire destroys wood. AT: "For when you speak my message, it will destroy the people of Israel as fire destroys wood" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metaphor]])

# against you

"to attack you." The word "you" refers to the people of Israel.

# house of Israel

The word "house" is a metonym for the family that lives in the house. In this case it refers to Israel's descendants. Here God was speaking to them. See how you translated it in [Jeremiah 2:4](../02/04.md). AT: "Israelites" or "people of Israel" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metonymy]])

# this is Yahweh's declaration

Yahweh speaks of himself by name to express the certainty of what he is declaring. See how you translated this in [Jeremiah 1:8](../01/07.md). AT: "this is what Yahweh has declared" or "this is what I, Yahweh, have declared" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-123person]])

# it is a lasting nation, an ancient nation

These phrases mean basically the same thing and emphasize how long the nation has existed. This refers to the nation from far away that Yahweh will bring against Israel. AT: "it is a very old and enduring nation" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-doublet]])

# a lasting nation

"an enduring nation" or "a very strong nation"

# It is a nation whose language you do not know, nor will you understand what they say

These phrases mean the same thing and emphasize that the Israelites do not know the language of those people. It may imply that the Israelites have not had much contact with them. AT: "It is a nation whose language you will not understand at all" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-parallelism]])

# translationWords

* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/yahwehofhosts]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/wordofgod]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/fire]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/consume]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/nation]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/house]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/israel]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/understand]]