# Connecting Statement:

Yahweh continues to speak to the people of Israel.

# Report this

"Tell this"

# the house of Jacob

The word "house" is a metonym for the family that lives in the house. In this case it refers to Jacob's descendants. Translate "house of Jacob" as in [Jeremiah 2:4](../02/04.md). AT: "descendants of Jacob" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metonymy]])

# let it be heard in Judah

This can be expressed in active from. AT: "Let those in Judah hear it" or "announce it in Judah" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-activepassive]])

# who have no understanding

"who do not understand" or "who understand nothing"

# you cannot see

Here "cannot see" is a metonym for not understanding. AT: "you do not understand" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metonymy]])

# you cannot hear

Here "cannot hear" represents not understanding. "AT: "you do not understand" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metonymy]])

# this is Yahweh's declaration

Yahweh speaks of himself by name to express the certainty of what he is declaring. See how you translated this in [Jeremiah 1:8](../01/07.md). AT: "this is what Yahweh has declared" or "this is what I, Yahweh, have declared" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-123person]])

# Do you not fear me ... face?

Yahweh uses this question to emphasize that the people are extremely foolish because they do not fear Yahweh. AT: "It is foolish that you do not fear me ... face!" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-rquestion]])

# or tremble before my face

The trembling would be because of fear, and being "before my face" represents being aware of who God is. AT: "or shake with fear because of me" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-explicit]] and [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metonymy]])

# I have placed a border of sand against the sea

"I placed the sand as the border for the sea"

# an ongoing decree that it does not violate

God speaks of the ocean not going past the border of sand as if the border were a law, and as if the ocean were a person who obeys the law. AT: "an everlasting limit that it cannot cross" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metaphor]])

# rises and falls

"moves back and forth"

# it does not violate it

"the ocean does not violate my decree." God speaks of ocean not going past the border of sand as if the border were a law, and as if the the ocean were a person who obeys the law. AT: "it does not succeed in going past the border" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metaphor]])

# translationWords

* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/report]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/house]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/jacob]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/judah]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/foolish]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/fear]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/tremble]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/face]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/decree]]