# General Information:

Yahweh continues to speak to the people of Israel.

# this people has a stubborn heart. It turns

The people's heart represents their attitude toward God. If Yahweh is speaking to the people, this can also be expressed with the word "you." AT: "but you people have a stubborn heart. You turn" or "but you people are stubborn. You turn" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metaphor]] and [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-123person]])

# It turns away in rebellion and goes away

The word "it" refers to the people. Here "goes away" represents disobeying God. AT: "They rebel and disobey me" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metaphor]])

# they do not say in their hearts

Here "their hearts" represent their thoughts, and "say" represents thinking. AT: "they do not think" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metaphor]])

# keeping the fixed weeks of the harvest for us

Here "keeping the fixed weeks of the harvest" represents making sure that those weeks happen at the right time. AT: "making sure for us that the weeks of harvest happen when they are supposed to" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-explicit]])

# Your iniquities

The word "Your" refers to the descendants of Jacob and the people of Judah.

# these things

This refers to the rains and the harvests.

# Your sins have stopped good from coming to you

Good things "coming" represents good things happening. "Because of your sins, good things have stopped happening to you" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metaphor]])

# translationWords

* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/stiffnecked]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/heart]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/rebel]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/fear]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/yahweh]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/god]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/harvest]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/iniquity]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/sin]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/good]]