# A declaration

"This is what Yahweh declares" or "This is Yahweh's message"

# about the desert by the sea

This refers to the people who live in Babylon as being a desert, even though God has not made it into a desert yet. This event will certainly happen. AT: "about the people who live in a land that soon will be a desert" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metonymy]] and [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-pastforfuture]])

# Like stormwinds sweeping through the Negev

Isaiah compares the army that will attack the people to a storm with strong winds. They will be quick and powerful. (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-simile]])

# from the wilderness

Here "wilderness" refers to the wilderness of Judea. (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-explicit]])

# from a terrible land

The army is from a people that cause great fear.

# A distressing vision has been given to me

This can be stated in active form. AT: "Yahweh showed me a troubling vision" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-activepassive]])

# the treacherous man deals treacherously

"those who deceive will deceive"

# the destroyer destroys

"those who destroy will destroy"

# Go up and attack, Elam; besiege, Media

In the vision given to Isaiah, Yahweh speaks to the armies of Elam and Media as if they are there listening to him. (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-apostrophe]])

# Go up and attack, Elam; besiege, Media

It is understood that they are to attack the Babylonians. AT: "Go up and attack the Babylonians, you soldiers of Elam; go and besiege the Babylonians, you soldiers of Media" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-ellipsis]])

# Elam ... Media

Here "Elam" and "Media" represent the soldiers from these places. (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metonymy]])

# I will stop all her groaning

Here "her" represents all the people who are suffering because of the Babylonians. Yahweh will cause them to stop groaning when he sends the armies of Elam and Media to destroy the Babylonians. (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metonymy]])