# A declaration

"This is what Yahweh declares" or "This is the message of Yahweh"

# about Arabia

Arabia refers to the population of Arabia. AT: "about the people of Arabia" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metonymy]])

# In the wilderness of Arabia

Arabia does not have a forest. AT: "Far off from the road in Arabia" or "Out in the bushes of Arabia" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-explicit]])

# caravans

a group of people traveling together

# Dedanites

This is a people group that lived in Arabia. (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/translate-names]])

# land of Tema

This is the name of a city in Arabia. (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/translate-names]])

# fugitives

A fugitive is a person who runs away so that his enemy will not capture him. See how you translated this in [Isaiah 15:5](../15/05.md).

# with bread

Here "bread" represents food in general. (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-synecdoche]])

# from the sword, from the drawn sword, from the bent bow

Here "sword" and "bow" represents the soldiers who attack the inhabitants of Tema. AT: "from their enemies who attack them with swords and bows" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metonymy]])

# from the weight of war

The terror and suffering that is experienced during war is spoken of as if war were a heavy weight on people. AT: "from the horrors of war" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metaphor]])

# translationWords

* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/declare]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/names/arabia]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/desert]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/bread]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/sword]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/bowweapon]]