# Connecting Statement:

Paul reminds the believers that though idols have no power, believers must be careful not to affect the weaker believers who might think they care about the idols. He tells believers to be careful with the liberty believers have in Christ.

# General Information:

"We" means Paul and, though specifically writing to the Corinthian believers, includes all believers. (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-inclusive]])

# Now about

Paul uses this phrase to move on to the next question the Corinthians had asked him.

# food sacrificed to idols

Gentile worshipers would offer grain, fish, fowl, or meat, to their gods. The priest would burn a portion of it on the altar. Paul is speaking of the portion the priest would give back for the worshiper to eat or sell in the market.

# Knowledge puffs up

"Knowledge puffs people up." Here "puffs up" is a metaphor for making someone proud. The abstract noun "knowledge" can be expressed with the verb "know." AT: "Knowledge makes people proud" or "People who think that they know a lot become proud" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metaphor]])

# but love builds up

The abstract noun "love" can be expressed as a verb. AT: "but when we love people, we build them up" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-abstractnouns]])

# love builds up

Building people up represents helping them become mature and strong in their faith. AT: "love strengthens people" or "when we love people, we strengthen them" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metaphor]])

# thinks he knows something

"believes he knows everything about something"

# that person is known by him

This can be stated in active form. AT: "God knows that person" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-activepassive]])

# translationWords

* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/sacrifice]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/falsegod]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/know]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/love]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/god]]