# General Information:

Peter begins to warn the believers about false teachers.

# False prophets came to the people, and false teachers will also come to you

Just as false prophets came deceiving Israel with their words, so will false teachers come teaching lies about Christ.

# destructive heresies

The word "heresies" refers to opinions that are contrary to the teaching of Christ and the apostles. These heresies destroy the faith of those who believe them.

# the master who bought them

The word "master" here refers to a person who owns slaves. Peter speaks of Jesus as the owner of people whom he has bought, the price being his death. (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metaphor]] and [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-explicit]])

# sensuality

"immoral sexual behavior"

# the way of truth will be blasphemed

The phrase "way of truth" refers to the Christian faith as the true path to God. This can be stated in active form. AT: "unbelievers will blaspheme the way of truth" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-activepassive]])

# make a profit off of you with deceptive words

"convince you to give them money by telling you lies"

# Their condemnation does not delay for long; their destruction does not sleep

Peter speaks of "condemnation" and "destruction" as if they are persons who act. The two phrases mean basically the same thing and emphasize how soon the false teachers will be condemned. (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-personification]] and [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-parallelism]])

# Their condemnation does not delay for long; their destruction does not sleep

You can translate these phrases with verbs in positive terms. AT: "God will soon condemn them; he is ready to destroy them" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-doublenegatives]] and [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-abstractnouns]])

# translationWords

* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/falseprophet]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/peoplegroup]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/teach]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/lord]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/true]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/blasphemy]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/profit]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/deceive]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/condemn]]