# Connecting Statement:

Peter gives examples of people who acted against God and whom God punished because of what they did.

# did not spare

"did not refrain from punishing" or "punished"

# he handed them down to Tartarus

The word "Tartarus" is a term from Greek religion that refers to the place where evil spirits and wicked men who have died are punished. AT: "he cast them into hell" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/translate-names]])

# to be kept in chains of lower darkness

This can be stated in active form. AT: "where he will keep them in chains of lower darkness" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-activepassive]])

# in chains of lower darkness

Possible meanings are 1) "in chains in a very dark place" or 2) "in very deep darkness that imprisons them like chains." (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metaphor]])

# until the judgment

This refers to the day of judgment when God will judge every person.

# he did not spare the ancient world

Here the word "world" refers to the people who lived in it. AT: "he did not spare the people who lived in the ancient world" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metonymy]])

# he preserved Noah ... along with seven others

God did not destroy Noah and seven other people when he destroyed the rest of the people who lived in the ancient world.

# reduced the cities of Sodom and Gomorrah to ashes

"burned the cities of Sodom and Gomorrah with fire until only ashes remained"

# condemned them to destruction

Here the word "them" refers to Sodom and Gomorrah and the people who lived in them.

# as an example of what is to happen to the ungodly

Sodom and Gomorrah serve as an example and a warning of what will happen to others who disobey God.

# translationWords

* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/god]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/angel]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/sin]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/darkness]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/judge]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/world]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/noah]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/righteous]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/flood]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/ungodly]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/sodom]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/gomorrah]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/ash]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/condemn]]