# Connecting Statement:

Peter begins describing the characteristics of unrighteous men.

# This is especially true

The word "this" refers to God keeping unrighteous men in prison until judgment day in [2 Peter 2:09](./07.md).

# those who continue in the corrupt desires of the flesh

Here the phrase "desires of the flesh" refers to the desires of the sinful nature. AT: "those who continue to indulge their corrupt, sinful desires"

# despise authority

"refuse to submit to God's authority." Here the word "authority" probably refers to God's authority.

# authority

Here "authority" stands for God, who has the right to give commands and to punish disobedience. (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metonymy]])

# self-willed

"do whatever they want to do"

# the glorious ones

This phrase refers to spiritual beings, such as angels or demons.

# greater strength and power

"more strength and power than the false teachers"

# they do not bring insulting judgments against them

The word "they" refers to angels. Possible meanings for the word "them" are 1) the glorious ones or 2) the false teachers.

# bring insulting judgments against them

The idea that angels could accuse them is spoken of as if they could attack them using accusations as weapons. (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metaphor]])

# translationWords

* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/true]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/corrupt]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/flesh]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/authority]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/bold]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/blasphemy]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/glory]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/angel]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/strength]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/judge]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/lord]]