# these unreasoning animals are naturally made for capture and destruction.

Just as animals cannot reason, these men cannot be reasoned with. AT: "these false teachers are like unreasoning animals who are made to be captured and destroyed" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metaphor]])

# They do not know what they insult

They speak evil of what they do not know or understand.

# They will be destroyed

This can be stated in active form. AT: "God will destroy them" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-activepassive]])

# They will receive the reward of their wrongdoing

Peter speaks of the punishment that the false teachers will receive as if it were a reward. AT: "They will receive what they deserve for their wrongdoing" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-irony]])

# luxury during the day

Here the word "luxury" refers to immoral activity that includes gluttony, drunkenness, and sexual activity. Doing these things during the day indicates that these people are not ashamed of this behavior.

# They are stains and blemishes

The words "stains" and "blemishes" share similar meanings. Peter speaks of the false teachers as if they were stains on a garment that cause shame for those who wear it. AT: "They are like stains and blemishes on clothes, which cause disgrace" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metaphor]] and [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-doublet]])

# They have eyes full of adultery

Here the "eyes" represent their desires and "eyes full" means they constant want something. AT: "They constantly want to commit adultery" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metonymy]])

# they are never satisfied with sin

Although they sin in order to satisfy their lusts, the sin that they commit never satisfies.

# They entice unstable souls

Here the word "souls" refers to persons. AT: "They entice unstable people" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-synecdoche]])

# hearts trained in covetousness

Here the word "hearts" refers to the thoughts and emotions of the person. Because of their habitual actions, they have trained themselves to think and act out of covetousness. (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metonymy]])

# translationWords

* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/reward]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/wrong]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/blemish]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/deceive]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/feast]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/adultery]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/sin]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/soul]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/heart]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/envy]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/children]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/curse]]