# These men are springs without water

Springs flowing with water promise refreshment for thirsty people, but "springs without water" will leave the thirsty disappointed. In the same way, false teachers, although they promise many things, are unable to do what they promise. (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metaphor]])

# mists driven by a storm

When people see storm clouds, they expect rain to fall. When the winds from the storm blow the clouds away before the rain can fall, the people are disappointed. In the same way, false teachers, although they promise many things, are unable to do what they promise. (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metaphor]])

# The gloom of thick darkness is reserved for them

The word "them" refers to the false teachers. This can be stated in active form. AT: "God has reserved the gloom of thick darkness for them" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-activepassive]])

# They speak with vain arrogance

They use impressive but meaningless words.

# They entice people through the lusts of the flesh

They appeal to the sinful nature to engage people in immoral and sinful actions.

# people who try to escape ... promise freedom ... slaves of corruption

Peter speaks of people who live sinfully as if they are slaves to sin who need to be released from their captivity. (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metaphor]])

# people who try to escape from those who live in error

This phrase refers to people who recently became believers. The phrase "those who live in error" refers to unbelievers who still live in sin. AT: "people who try to live rightly, instead of living sinfully as they used to and as other people do" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-explicit]])

# They promise freedom to them, but they themselves are slaves of corruption

"Freedom" here is an idiom for the ability to live exactly as one wants. AT: "They promise to give them the ability to live exactly as they want to live, but they themselves cannot escape their own sinful desires"  (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metaphor]])

# For a man is a slave to whatever overcomes him

Peter speaks of a person as a slave when anything has control over that person, and that thing as the master of that person. AT: "For if something has control over a person, that person becomes like a slave to that thing" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metaphor]])

# translationWords

* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/fountain]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/darkness]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/vain]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/arrogant]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/lust]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/flesh]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/promise]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/free]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/servant]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/corrupt]]