# General Information:

Yahweh continues telling his message.

# he will come

Here "he" refers to Nebuchadnezzar who represents his whole army. AT: "Nebuchadnezzar's army will come" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metonymy]])

# Anyone who is assigned to death will be given to death

The abstract noun "death" can be stated as "die." This can be stated in active form. AT: "Everyone will die whom I have decided must die" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-activepassive]])

# Anyone who is assigned to captivity will be taken captive

This can be stated in active form. AT: "The Babylonians will take everyone captive whom I have decided must go into captivity" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-activepassive]])

# Anyone who is assigned to the sword will be given to the sword

Here "sword" represents battle. This can be stated in active form. AT: "Everyone will die in battle whom I have decided will die in battle" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metonymy]] and [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-activepassive]])

# Then I will light a fire

Here "I" refers to Yahweh. This represents Yahweh sending the Babylonian army to light a fire. AT: "Then I will cause the Babylonian army to light a fire" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metonymy]])

# Nebuchadnezzar will ... He will

Here Nebuchadnezzar represents his army. AT: "Nebuchadnezzar's army will ... They will" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metonymy]])

# burn them or capture them

"burn the Egyptian idols or take them"

# He will clean out the land of Egypt just as shepherds clean vermin off their clothes

Taking or destroying everything in Egypt is compared to how a shepherd carefully cleans off his clothes. AT: "He will take or destroy everything valuable in Egypt just as a shepherd is careful to get every insect off of his clothes" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-simile]])

# Heliopolis

This is the name of a city. The name means "city of the sun." In this city was a temple where they worshiped a sun god. (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/translate-names]] and [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-explicit]])

# translationWords

* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/assign]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/death]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/captive]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/sword]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/fire]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/temple]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/falsegod]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/clean]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/shepherd]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/pillar]]