# General Information:

The angel of Yahweh continues to speak to Joshua.

# your companions who live with you

This phrase refers to other priests who would serve in the temple under the leadership of Joshua. AT: "the other priests who live with you" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-explicit]])

# For these men are a sign

Here the word "sign" refers to something that communicates a special meaning to those who see it. Yahweh speaks of the priests serving in the temple as being this sign that shows that Yahweh will bring his servant.

# my servant the Branch

The word "Branch" refers to a messianic figure that would serve as king over Yahweh's people. Yahweh speaks of this person as if he were a branch that grows out from a tree. Since the word "Branch" is a title, it should be translated with an equivalent word in your language. (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metaphor]])

# the stone that I have set before Joshua

Here the word "stone" likely refers to a precious stone or jewel.

# There are seven eyes on this single stone

The sides or facets of the stone that reflect light are spoken of as if they are eyes. AT: "There are seven sides on this single stone" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metaphor]])

# I will engrave an inscription

It is implicit that he will engrave the inscription on the stone. AT: "I will engrave an inscription on the stone" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-explicit]])

# engrave

"carve"

# this is the declaration of Yahweh of hosts

Yahweh speaks of himself by name to express the certainty of what he is declaring. See how you translated this in [Zechariah 1:3](../01/01.md). AT: "this is what Yahweh of hosts has declared" or "this is what I, Yahweh of hosts, have declared" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-123person]])

# I will remove the sin from this land in one day

Here the word "land" represents the people who live in the land. AT: "I will remove the sin of the people from this land in one day" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metonymy]])

# translationWords

* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/highpriest]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/life]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/sign]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/servant]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/declare]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/sin]]