# Abimelech called Isaac to him

Abimelech probably sent someone to tell Isaac that Abimelech wanted to see him. AT: "Abimelech sent someone to bring Isaac to him" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metonymy]])

# Why did you say, 'She is my sister'?

This is a quotation within a quotation. It can be stated as an indirect quotation. AT: "Why did you say that she is your sister?" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-quotesinquotes]] and [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-quotations]])

# to get her

"so he could take her"

# What is this you have done to us?

Abimelech used this question to scold Isaac. AT: "You should not have done this to us!" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-rquestion]])

# you would have brought guilt upon us

This speaks about causing someone to be guilty as if "guilt" were an object that is placed on someone. AT: "you would have caused us to be guilty of taking a man's wife" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metaphor]])

# upon us

Here "us" refers to Abimelech and his people. (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-exclusive]])

# Whoever touches this man

Here "touches" means to touch in a harmful way. AT: "Whoever harms this man" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-idiom]])

# will surely be put to death

Abimelech may have intended to tell someone to kill anyone who might harm Isaac or Rebekah. This can be stated in active form. AT: "I will put him to death" or "I will order my men to kill him" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-activepassive]])

# translationWords

* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/names/abimelech]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/names/isaac]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/sex]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/guilt]]