# General Information:

Parallelism is common in Hebrew poetry. (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/writing-poetry]] and [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-parallelism]])

# For the chief musician

"This is for the director of music to use in worship."

# A psalm of the sons of Korah

"This is a psalm that the sons of Korah wrote."

# you have showed favor to your land

Here "land" represents the nation and people of Israel. (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metonymy]])

# well-being

This refers to a person being happy, healthy and prosperous.

# of Jacob

Here "Jacob" represents Jacob's descendents, the Israelites. (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-synecdoche]])

# you have covered all their sin

Here sin that is forgiven is spoken of as if it were covered so that it can not be seen. AT: "you have deliberately forgotten their sin" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metaphor]])

# their sin

This writer thought of himself as belonging to God's people. AT: "our sin"

# Selah

This may be a musical term that tells people how to sing or play their instruments here. Some translations write the Hebrew word, and some translations do not include it. See how you translated this in [Psalms 3:2](../003/001.md). (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/translate-transliterate]])

# translationWords

* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/psalm]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/son]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/korah]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/yahweh]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/favor]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/restore]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/jacob]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/forgive]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/sin]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/peopleofgod]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/selah]]