# Astonish yourselves and be astonished

The word "yourselves" refers to the people of Jerusalem. Why they are astonished can be made explicit. AT: "Be astonished at what I am telling you" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-explicit]] and [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-doublet]])

# blind yourselves and be blind

The people ignoring what Yahweh says is spoken of as if they would make themselves blind. AT: "keep being ignorant and spiritually blind to what I am showing you" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metaphor]])

# Be drunk, but not with wine; stagger, but not with beer

The people being senseless and not understanding what Yahweh is doing is spoken of as if they were drunk. AT: "Be senseless like a drunk person, but it is not because you have drank too much wine or beer" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metaphor]])

# For Yahweh has poured out on you the spirit of deep sleep

Here "the spirit of" means "to have the characteristic of" being asleep. Yahweh causing the people to be asleep is spoken of as if "the spirit" were a liquid that he poured out on the people. Also "deep sleep" is a metaphor that means the people are senseless and cannot understand what Yahweh is doing. AT: "The reason you are senseless is because Yahweh has caused you to be spiritually asleep" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metaphor]])

# He has closed your eyes, the prophets, and has covered your heads, the seers

Yahweh causing the people to be senseless and not to understand what he is doing is spoken of as if he closed their eyes and covered their heads so they could not see. AT: "It is as though Yahweh has closed the eyes of the prophets and covered the heads of the seers" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metaphor]])