# This people comes close to me with their mouths and honors me with their lips

The words "mouths" and "lips" represent what people say. Here it also represents saying something but not truly meaning it. AT: "The people of Jerusalem pretend to worship me and honor me with what they say" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metonymy]])

# but their heart is far from me

Here "heart" is a metonym that represents a person's thoughts and emotions. The people not being truly devoted to Yahweh is spoken of as if their hearts were far away from him. AT: "but they do not honor me in their thoughts" or "but they are not truly devoted to me" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metonymy]] and [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metaphor]])

# Their honor for me is only a commandment of men that has been taught

This can be stated in active form. AT: "They honor me only because that is what people tell them to do" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-activepassive]])

# Therefore, see, I will proceed to do a marvelous thing among this people, wonder after wonder

"Therefore, look and see! I am going to do wonderful and marvelous things among you that you will not be able to explain"

# The wisdom of their wise men will perish, and the understanding of their prudent men will disappear

Both of these statements mean the same thing. Yahweh showing that the wise people cannot understand or explain what Yahweh does is spoken of as if their wisdom and understanding will vanish. (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-parallelism]] and [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metaphor]])

# translationWords

* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/lordgod]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/peoplegroup]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/honor]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/heart]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/command]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/miracle]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/wise]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/perish]]