# the house of Jacob

Here "house" represents a family. AT: "the descendants of Jacob" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metonymy]])

# who redeemed Abraham

This possibly refers to when Yahweh called Abraham from his home country and sent him to the promised land. (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-explicit]])

# Jacob will no longer ... his face ... he sees his children

Here "Jacob" represents his descendants. AT: "Jacob's descendants will no longer ... their faces ... they see their children" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metonymy]])

# nor will his face be pale

This is an idiom that means they will no longer be afraid. AT: "nor will they be afraid" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-idiom]])

# But when he sees his children, the work of my hands

Here "hands" represents Yahweh's power and action. AT: "When they see all the children I have given them and all that I have done" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metonymy]])

# they will make my name holy

Here "name" represents Yahweh. AT: "they will honor me" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metonymy]])

# They will make holy the name of the Holy One of Jacob

Here "name" represents Yahweh. Yahweh refers to himself as "the Holy One of Jacob." AT: "They will honor me, the Holy One of Jacob" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metonymy]] and [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-123person]])

# of the God of Israel

Yahweh refers to himself as "the God of Israel." AT: "of me, the God of Israel" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-123person]])

# Those who err in spirit

Here "spirit" represents a person's inner being. AT: "Those who are wrong in what they think" or "Those who are wrong in their attitude" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metonymy]])

# will gain understanding

This can be made more explicit to explain what they will understand. AT: "will begin to understand Yahweh and his laws" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-explicit]])

# complainers will learn knowledge

This can be made more explicit to explain what knowledge they will learn. AT: "those who complain will begin to know that what Yahweh teaches them is true" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-explicit]])

# translationWords

* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/yahweh]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/house]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/jacob]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/redeem]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/abraham]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/shame]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/children]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/hand]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/honor]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/name]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/holyone]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/awe]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/israel]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/spirit]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/know]]