## translationWords

* [[en:tw:God]]
* [[en:tw:altar]]
* [[en:tw:altar|altar]]
* [[en:tw:burntoffering]]
* [[en:tw:cow]]
* [[en:tw:cow|cow, calf, bull]]
* [[en:tw:delight]]
* [[en:tw:heart]]
* [[en:tw:jerusalem]]
* [[en:tw:jerusalem|Jerusalem]]
* [[en:tw:peoplegroup]]
* [[en:tw:righteous]]
* [[en:tw:spirit]]
* [[en:tw:zion]]
* [[en:tw:zion|Zion, Mount Zion]]

## translationNotes

* **a broken spirit** - This phrase describes and attitude of humility and repentence before God. The person acknowledges he is nothing apart from God. AT: "a person who is humble" (See: [[:en:ta:vol2:translate:figs_synecdoche]])
* **you will not … your good pleasure ** - The words "you" and "your" refer to God. This is a prayer to God where David shows his understanding of what pleases God.
* **a broken and a contrite heart** - The heart refers to a person's emotions. This phrase refers to a person who feels regret but understands he cannot do anything to correct what he has done wrong. AT: "a person who regrets his sin and admits he needs help" (See: [[:en:ta:vol2:translate:figs_synecdoche]])
* **rebuild the walls of Jerusalem** - The walls of a city protect the city and help the people feel secure. This prayer asks for God's protection by asking him to rebuild the city's walls. AT: "protect Jerusalem and make the city great" (See: [[:en:ta:vol2:translate:figs_metonymy]])
* **our people will offer bulls on your altar** - A bull is an adult male cow. Bulls were often used as sacrificial animals, according to God's instruction.
