# The one who conquers

This refers anyone who conquers. See how you translated this in [Revelation 2:7](./06.md). AT: "Anyone who resists evil" or "The person who does not agree to do evil" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-genericnoun]])

# He will rule ... break them into pieces

This is a prophecy from the Old Testament about a king of Israel, but Jesus applied it here to those to whom he gives authority over the nations.

# He will rule them with an iron rod

Ruling harshly is spoken of as ruling with an iron rod. AT: "He will rule them harshly as if striking them with an iron stick" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metaphor]])

# like clay jars he will break them into pieces

Breaking them to pieces is an image that represents either 1) destroying evildoers or 2) defeating enemies. AT: "He will defeat his enemies completely as if breaking clay jars into pieces" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-simile]])

# Just as I have received from my Father

Some languages may need to tell what was received. Possible meanings are 1) "Just as I have received authority from my Father" or 2) "Just as I have received the morning star from my Father." (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-explicit]])

# my Father

This is an important title for God that describes the relationship between God and Jesus. (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/guidelines-sonofgodprinciples]])

# I will also give him

Here "him" refers to the one who conquers.

# morning star

This is a bright star that sometimes appears early in the morning just before dawn. It was a symbol of victory. (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/writing-symlanguage]])

# Let the one who has an ear listen

Being willing to listen is spoken of as having an ear. See how you translated this in [Revelation 2:7](./06.md). AT: "Let the one who is willing to listen, listen" or "If you are willing, listen" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metaphor]])

# translationWords

* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/authority]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/nation]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/rod]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/godthefather]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/holyspirit]]