# Connecting Statement:

Jesus continues to instruct his disciples about what they should do when they go to preach.

# you ... your

These are plural and refer to the twelve apostles. (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-you]])

# raise the dead,

"Raise" here is an idiom for "cause the dead to live again." AT: "cause the dead to live again" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-idiom]])

# Freely you have received, freely give

Jesus did not state what the disciples had received or were to give. Some languages may require this information in the sentence. Here "freely" means that there was no payment. AT: "Freely you have received these things, freely give them to others" or "You received these things without paying, so give them to others without making them pay" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-ellipsis]])

# Freely you have received, freely give

Here "received" is a metaphor that represents being made able to do things, and "give" is a metaphor that represents doing things for others. AT: "Freely you have received the ability to do these things, freely do them for others" or "Freely I have made you able to do these things, freely do them for others" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metaphor]])

# gold, silver, or copper

These are metals out of which coins were made. This list is a metonym for money, so if the metals are unknown in your area, translate the list as "money." (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metonymy]])

# purses

This means "belts" or "money belts," but it can refer to whatever might be used to carry money. A belt is a long strip of cloth or leather worn around the waist. It was often wide enough that it could be folded and used to carry money.

# traveling bag

This could either be any bag used to carry things on a journey, or a bag used by someone to collect food or money.

# an extra tunic

Use the same word you used for "tunic" in [Matthew 5:40](../05/40.md).

# laborer

"worker"

# his food

Here "food" refers to anything a person needs. AT: "what he needs" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-synecdoche]])

# translationWords

* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/heal]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/death]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/clean]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/leprosy]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/castout]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/demon]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/gold]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/silver]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/tunic]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/sandal]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/staff]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/labor]]