# Connecting Statement:

Jesus continues to instruct his disciples about what they should do when they go out to preach.

# you ... your

These are plural and refer to the twelve apostles. (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-you]])

# Whatever city or village you enter

"Whenever you enter a city or village" or "Every city or village you go into"

# city ... village

"large village ... small village" or "large town ... small town." See how you translated this in [Matthew 9:35](../09/35.md).

# worthy ... not worthy

In 10:11-13 a "worthy" person refers to a person who is willing to welcome the disciples. Jesus compares this person to one who is "not worthy," a person who does not welcome the disciples.

# stay there until you leave

The full meaning of the statement can be made explicit. AT: "stay in that person's house until you leave the town or village" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-explicit]])

# As you enter into the house, greet it

The phrase "greet it" means greet the house. A common greeting in those days was "Peace be to this house!" Here "house" refers to the people who live in the house. AT: "As you enter into the house, greet the people who live in it" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metonymy]])

# the house is worthy

Here "house" refers to those who live in the house. AT: "the people who live in that house receive you well" or "the people who live in that house treat you well" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metonymy]])

# let your peace come upon it

The word "it" means the house. Here "house" refers to the people who live in the house. AT: "let peace come upon it" or "the people who live in that house will live in peace" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metonymy]])

# your peace

This is the peace the apostles are to ask God to bring upon the people in the house.

# if it is not worthy

The word "it" means the house. Here "house" refers to the people who live in the house. AT: "if they do not receive you well" or "if they do not treat you well" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metonymy]])

# let your peace come back to you

Possible meanings are 1) if the household was not worthy, then God would hold back peace or blessings from that household or 2) if the household was not worthy, then the apostles were supposed to do something, such as asking God not to honor their greeting of peace. If your language has a similar meaning of taking back a greeting or its effects, that should be used here.