# Connecting Statement:

Jesus continues to instruct his disciples. Here he begins to tell them about the persecution they will endure when they go out to preach.

# See, I send

The word "See" here adds emphasis to what follows. AT: "Look, I send" or "Listen,  send" or "Pay attention to what I am about to tell you. I send"

# I send you out

Jesus is sending them out for a particular purpose.

# as sheep in the midst of wolves

Sheep are defenseless animals that wolves often attack. Jesus is stating that people may harm the disciples. AT: "as sheep among people who are like dangerous wolves" or "as sheep among people who act the way dangerous animals act" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-simile]])

# be as wise as serpents and harmless as doves

Jesus is telling the disciples they must be cautious and harmless among the people. If comparing the disciples to serpents or doves is confusing, it might be better not to state the similes. AT: "act with understanding and caution, as well as with innocence and virtue" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-simile]])

# Watch out for people! They will

You can translate with "because" to show how these two statements relate. AT: "Watch out for people because they will" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/writing-connectingwords]])

# will deliver you up to

"will put you under the control of"

# councils

"courts." These are local religious leaders or elders who together keep peace in the community.

# whip you

"beat you with a whip"

# you will be brought

This can be stated in active form. AT: "they will bring you" or "they will drag you" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-activepassive]])

# for my sake

"because you belong to me" or "because you follow me"

# to them and to the Gentiles

The pronoun "them" refers either to the "governors and kings" or to the Jewish accusers.

# translationWords

* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/send]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/sheep]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/wolf]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/wise]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/serpent]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/dove]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/deliverer]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/council]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/synagogue]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/governor]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/king]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/testimony]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/gentile]]
