# Connecting Statement:

Jesus continues to instruct his disciples about the persecution they will endure when they go out to preach.

# Brother will deliver up brother to death, and a father his child

The phrase "a father his child" can be translated as a complete sentence. AT: "Brothers will deliver up their brothers to death, and fathers will deliver up their children to death" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-ellipsis]])

# deliver up

"betray" or "give up." See how you translated this in [Matthew 10:17](./16.md).

# to death

The abstract noun "death" can be translated in a concrete, more detailed way. AT: "to the courts so that the authorities can execute them" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-abstractnouns]])

# rise up against

"rebel against" or "turn against"

# cause them to be put to death

This can be translated in active form. AT: "have them put to death" or "have the authorities execute them" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-activepassive]])

# You will be hated by everyone

This can be translated in active form. AT: "Everyone will hate you" or "All people will hate you" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-activepassive]])

# You

This is plural and refers to the twelve disciples. (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-you]])

# because of my name

Here "name" refers to the entire person. AT: "because of me" or "because you trust in me" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metonymy]])

# whoever endures

"whoever stays faithful"

# to the end

It is not clear whether the "end" means when a person dies, when the persecution ends, or the end of the age when God shows himself to be king. The main point is that they endure as long as necessary.

# that person will be saved

This can be stated in active form. AT: "God will deliver that person" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-activepassive]])

# in this city

Here "this" does not refer to a specific city. AT: "in one city"

# flee to the next

"flee to the next city"

# truly I say to you

"I tell you the truth." This phrase adds emphasis to what Jesus says next.

# Son of Man

Jesus is speaking about himself. (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-123person]])

# has come

"arrives"