# Connecting Statement:

Jesus continues to instruct his disciples about the persecution they will endure when they go out to preach.

# A disciple is not greater than his teacher, nor a servant above his master

Jesus is using a proverb to teach his disciples a general truth. Jesus is emphasizing that the disciples should not expect people to treat them any better than the people treat Jesus. (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/writing-proverbs]])

# A disciple is not greater than his teacher

"A disciple is always less important than his teacher" or "A teacher is always more important than his disciple"

# nor a servant above his master

"and a servant is always less important than his master" or "and a master is always more important than his servant"

# It is enough for the disciple that he should be like his teacher

"The disciple should be satisfied to become like his teacher"

# be like his teacher

If necessary, you can make explicit how the disciple becomes like the teacher. AT: "know as much as his teacher knows" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-explicit]])

# the servant like his master

If necessary, you can make explicit how the servant becomes like the master. AT: "the servant should be satisfied to become only as important as his master" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-explicit]])

# If they have called the master ... how much worse ... they call ... the members of his household

Again Jesus is emphasizing that since people have mistreated him, his disciples should expect people to treat them the same or worse.

# how much worse would be the names they call the members of his household

"the names that they call the members of his household will certainly be much worse" or "they will certainly call the members of his household much worse names"

# If they have called

"Since people have called"

# the master of the house

Jesus is using this as a metaphor for himself. (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metaphor]])

# Beelzebul

This name can either be 1) transcribed directly as "Beelzebul" or 2) translated with its original, intended meaning of "Satan."

# his household

This is a metaphor for Jesus' disciples. (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metaphor]])

# translationWords

* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/disciple]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/teacher]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/servant]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/lord]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/house]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/beelzebul]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/household]]