# Connecting Statement:

Jesus continues to instruct his disciples about the persecution they will endure when they go out to preach.

# do not fear them

Here "them" refers to the people who mistreat followers of Jesus.

# there is nothing concealed that will not be revealed, and nothing hidden that will not be known

Both of these statements mean the same thing. Jesus is emphasizing that God will make all things known. This can be stated in active form. AT: "God will reveal the things that people hide" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-parallelism]] and [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-activepassive]])

# What I tell you in the darkness, say in the daylight, and what you hear softly in your ear, proclaim upon the housetops

Both of these statements mean the same thing. Jesus is emphasizing that the disciples should tell everyone what he tells the disciples in private. AT: "Tell people in the daylight what I tell you in the darkness, and proclaim upon the housetops what you hear softly in your ear" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-parallelism]])

# What I tell you in the darkness

Here "darkness" means "in private." AT: "What I say to you secretly" or "The things I am telling you privately" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metaphor]])

# say in the daylight

Here "daylight" means "in public." AT: "say openly" or "say publicly" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metaphor]])

# what you hear softly in your ear

This is a way of referring to whispering. AT: "what I whisper to you" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-idiom]])

# proclaim upon the housetops

Housetops where Jesus lived were flat, and people far away could hear anyone speaking with a loud voice. Here "housetops" refers to any place where all people can hear. AT: "speak loudly in a public place for all to hear" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metonymy]])

# translationWords

* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/fear]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/reveal]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/proclaim]]