# Connecting Statement:

Jesus continues to instruct his disciples about the persecution they will endure when they go to preach.

# General Information:

Here Jesus also begins to give reasons why his disciples should not be afraid of the persecution they might experience.

# Do not be afraid of those who kill the body but are unable to kill the soul

This is not distinguishing between people who cannot kill the soul and people who can kill the soul. No person can kill the soul. AT: "Do not be afraid of people. They can kill the body, but they cannot kill the soul" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-distinguish]])

# kill the body

This means to cause physical death. If these words are awkward, they can be translated as "kill you" or "kill other people."

# body

the part of a person that can be touched, as opposed to the soul or spirit

# kill the soul

This means to harm people after they have physically died.

# soul

the part of a person that cannot be touched and that lives on after the physical body dies

# fear him who is able

You can add "because" to clarify why people should fear God. AT: "fear God because he is able" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/writing-connectingwords]])

# Are not two sparrows sold for a small coin?

Jesus states this proverb as a question to teach his disciples. AT: "Think about the sparrows. They have so little value that you can buy two of them for only one small coin." (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/writing-proverbs]] and [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-rquestion]])

# sparrows

These are very small, seed-eating birds. AT: "small birds" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/translate-unknown]])

# a small coin

This is often translated as the least valuable coin available in your country. It refers to a copper coin worth about one-sixteenth of a day's wage for a laborer. AT: "very little money"

# not one of them falls to the ground without your Father's knowledge

This can be stated in a positive form. AT: "your Father knows when even one sparrow dies and falls to the ground" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-doublenegatives]])

# Father

This is an important title for God. (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/guidelines-sonofgodprinciples]])

# even the hairs of your head are all numbered

This can be stated in active form. AT: "God knows even how many hairs are on your head" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-activepassive]])

# numbered

"counted"

# You are more valuable than many sparrows

"God values you more than many sparrows"

# translationWords

* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/fear]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/soul]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/hell]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/godthefather]]