# Connecting Statement:

Jesus continues to instruct his disciples about the reasons why they should not be afraid of the persecution that they might experience.

# He who ... is not worthy

Here "he" means any person in general. AT: "Those who ... are not worthy" or "If you ... you are not worthy" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-gendernotations]])

# loves

The word for "love" here refers to "brotherly love" or "love from a friend." AT: "cares for" or "is devoted to" or "is fond of"

# worthy of me

"deserve to belong to me" or "worthy to be my disciple"

# pick up his cross and follow after me

"carry his cross and follow me." The cross represents suffering and death. Taking up the cross represents being willing to suffer and die. AT: "must obey me even to the point of suffering and dying" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metonymy]] and [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metaphor]])

# pick up

"take up" or "pick up and carry"

# He who finds ... will lose ... he who loses ... will find

Jesus uses a proverb to teach his disciples. This should be translated with as few words as possible. AT: "Those who find ... will lose ... those who lose ... will find" or "If you find ... you will lose ... if you lose ... you will find" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/writing-proverbs]])

# finds

This is a metaphor for "keeps" or "saves." AT: "tries to keep" or "tries to save" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metaphor]])

# will lose it

This does not mean the person will die. It is a metaphor that means the person will not experience spiritual life with God. AT: "will not have true life" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metaphor]])

# who loses his life

This does not mean to die. It is a metaphor that means a person considers obeying Jesus more important than his own life. AT: "who denies himself" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metaphor]])

# for my sake

"because he trusts me" or "on my account" or "because of me." This is the same idea as "for my sake" in [Matthew 10:18](./16.md).

# will find it

This metaphor means the person will experience spiritual life with God. AT: "will find true life" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metaphor]])

# translationWords

* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/love]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/worthy]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/cross]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/life]]