# Connecting Statement:

Jesus continues to instruct his disciples about the reasons why they should not be afraid of the persecution that they might experience.

# He who

The word "He" refers to anyone in general. AT: "Whoever" or "Anyone who" or "The one who" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-gendernotations]])

# welcomes

This means to receive someone as a guest.

# you

This is plural and refers to the twelve apostles to whom Jesus is speaking. (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-you]])

# He who welcomes you welcomes me

Jesus means that when someone welcomes you, it is like welcoming him. AT: "When someone welcomes you, it is like he is welcoming me" or "If someone welcomes you, it is as if he were welcoming me"

# he who welcomes me also welcomes him who sent me

This means that when someone welcomes Jesus, it is like welcoming God. AT: "When someone welcomes me, it is like he is welcoming God the Father who sent me" or "If someone welcomes me, it is as if he were welcoming God the Father who sent me"

# because he is a prophet

Here "he" does not refer to the person who is welcoming. It refers to the person being welcomed.

# a prophet's reward

This refers to the reward that God gives the prophet, not to the reward that a prophet gives to another person.

# he is a righteous man

Here "he" does not refer to the person who is welcoming. It refers to the person being welcomed.

# a righteous man's reward

This refers to the reward God gives to a righteous person, not a reward that a righteous person gives to another person.

# translationWords

* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/send]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/prophet]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/reward]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/righteous]]