# General Information:

Yahweh is talking about Israel.

# I know Ephraim, and Israel is not hidden from me

Here, "Ephraim" and "Israel" both refer to the whole northern kingdom of Israel, and represent the people who live there. Here God says that he knows what they are like and what they are doing. (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-synecdoche]] and [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metonymy]] and [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-parallelism]])

# Ephraim, now you have become like a prostitute

Ephraim is presented in terms of a prostitute because the people have become unfaithful to God, as a prostitute is faithful to no man. (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-simile]])

# for the mind of adultery is in them

This means they have the desire to be unfaithful to God. They want to worship idols.

# to turn to God ... they do not know Yahweh

The translator can represent this as "to turn to me ... they do not know me," or "to turn to me ... they do not know me, Yahweh."

# they do not know Yahweh

Israel no longer obeys Yahweh in any way. They do not acknowledge Yahweh as their God.

# translationWords

* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/know]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/ephraim]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/israel]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/prostitute]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/defile]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/works]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/turn]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/god]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/adultery]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/yahweh]]