# General Information:

Yahweh is talking about Judah and Israel.

# The leaders of Judah are like those who move a boundary stone

To "move a boundary stone" refers to moving the landmark that marked the border of some property, which was a crime under Israelite law. (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-simile]])

# I will pour my wrath on them like water

Yahweh's wrath against Judah will be like a large stream of water that destroys them. In the scriptures, emotions and moral qualities are often spoken of as if they were liquids. (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metaphor]])

# Ephraim is crushed; he is crushed in judgment

This can be stated in active form. This statement is made twice for emphasis. Here "Ephraim" refers to the people of the northern kingdom of Israel. AT: "I will punish the people of Israel severely" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-parallelism]] and [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-synecdoche]] and [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-activepassive]])

# walked after idols

Here "walked" represents the idea of worshiping. (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metaphor]])

# idols

The Hebrew word translated here as "idols" is uncertain in its meaning, and is translated by modern versions in many different ways.

# translationWords

* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/names/judah]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/wrath]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/water]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/names/ephraim]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/judge]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/falsegod]]