# the house of Israel

The word "house" is a metonym for the family that lives in the house, in this case the Israelites, the descendants of Jacob over many years. See how you translated this in [Ezekiel 3:1](../03/01.md). AT: "the Israelites" or "the Israelite people group" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metonymy]])

# exceedingly great

"very great"

# The land is full of blood and the city full of perversions

Here "land" is spoken of as if it were a container filled with blood. Here "blood" is metonym for murder. And "city" is spoken of as if it were a container and "perversions" were the contents inside of it. AT: "All over the land people are killing innocent people, and all over the city people are doing wicked things" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metaphor]] and [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metonymy]])

# my eye will not look with compassion

The eye is a synecdoche for the person whose eye it is. AT: "I will not look on them with compassion" or "I will not be compassionate to them" (See: and [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-synecdoche]])

# bring it all on their heads

To bring someone's conduct on him represents punishing him for his bad conduct. AT: "punishing them as they deserve"

# Behold

"Pay attention to what I am about to say"

# linen

a strong, smooth cloth made from a plant. It is worn by many people in places that are hot. See how you translated this in [Ezekiel 9:2](./01.md). AT: "smooth cloth" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/translate-unknown]])

# He reported and said

"He reported to Yahweh and told him"