Jesus continues telling his parable.

## best robe ##

"the best robe in the house." A robe was a long garment worn over other clothing. In places where robes are not known, it can be translated as "the best coat" or "the best garment."

## put a ring on his hand ##

A ring was a sign of authority that men wore on one of their fingers.

## sandals ##

Sandals are a type of shoe. Where sandals are not known, it can be translated as "shoes."

## fattened calf ##

A calf is a young cow. People would give one of their calves special food so that it would grow well, and then when they wanted to have a special feast, they would eat it. This can be translated as "the best calf" or "the young cow we have been been giving lots of food to" or "the young animal we have been making fat."

## and kill it ##

The implied information that they were to cook the meat can be made clear: "and kill it and cook it." (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-explicit]])

## my son was dead and is now alive ##

This is a metaphor. It can be translated as a simile: "it is as if my son was dead and became alive again" or "I felt like my son had died, but he is alive." (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metaphor]])

## he was lost and is now found ##

This is a metaphor. It can be translated as a simile: "It is as if my son was lost and has been found" or "I feel like my son was lost, and has been found" or "my son was lost and has returned home." (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metaphor]], [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-simile]])