# that all Israel should be gathered together to you

This can be stated in active form. Also, here "all Israel" represents only the Israelite soldiers. AT: "that you should gather together all of the Israelite soldiers" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-activepassive]] and [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-synecdoche]])

# from Dan to Beersheba

This phrase means from the northern border of Israel to the southern border. AT: "from the whole nation of Israel" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-merism]])

# as numerous as the sands that are by the sea

This is an exaggeration where all the grains of sand on a beach are compared to the number of Israelite soldiers. AT: "so many that they can barely be counted" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-hyperbole]] and [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-simile]])

# that you go to battle in person

The phrase "in person" means to go yourself and not send someone else instead. AT: "then lead them yourself into battle" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-idiom]])

# come on him

This means to purposefully go to where he is and then to attack. (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-idiom]])

# we will cover him as the dew falls on the ground

Absalom's army is described as covering David's army like the dew covers the ground in the morning. AT: "we will overwhelm and completely defeat David's army" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-simile]])

# dew

the fog or misty cloud of water that can fall onto the ground during the night, covering the ground and leaving it wet in the morning

# We will not leave even one of his men ... alive

This negative sentence is used for emphasis and can be stated in a positive form. AT: "We will kill every one of his men" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-litotes]])

# him himself

Both these words refer to David. AT: "David himself" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-rpronouns]])