# Jeremiah son of Hilkiah, one of the priests

"Jeremiah son of Hilkiah. Jeremiah was one of the priests"

# Hilkiah

This is the name of a man. (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/translate-names]])

# Anathoth

This is the name of a town. (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/translate-names]])

# the land of Benjamin

"the land that belongs to the tribe of Benjamin"

# The word of Yahweh came to him

This idiom is used to announce that God gave messages to him. AT: "Yahweh gave messages to him" or "Yahweh spoke to Jeremiah" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-idiom]])

# Yahweh

This is the name of God that he revealed to his people in the Old Testament. See the translationWord page about Yahweh concerning how to translate this.

# in the days of Josiah son of Amon, king of Judah

Here "in the days of" is an idiom that refers to the time when a king reigned. AT: "when Josiah son of Amon was king of Judah" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-idiom]])

# the thirteenth ... the eleventh

(See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/translate-ordinal]])

# Amon

This is the name of a man. (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/translate-names]])

# his reign

"Josiah's reign"

# It also came

"The word of Yahweh also came"

# in the days of Jehoiakim son of Josiah, king of Judah

Here "in the days of" is an idiom that refers to the time when a king reigned. AT: "when Johoiakim son of Josiah was king of Judah" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-idiom]])

# the fifth month

This is the fifth month of the Hebrew calendar. It is during the last part of July and the first part of August on Western calendars. (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/translate-hebrewmonths]] and [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/translate-ordinal]])

# of Zedekiah

This refers to the rule of Zedekiah. This can be stated explicitly. AT: "of the reign of Zedekiah" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-explicit]])

# when the people of Jerusalem were taken away as prisoners

This can be stated in active form. It can be stated clearly that they were taken to Babylon. AT: "when the army of Babylon took the people of Jerusalem away as prisoners" or "when the army of Babylon took the people of Jerusalem as prisoners to Babylon" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-activepassive]] and [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-explicit]])