# General Information:

Moses continues speaking to the Levites about all the Israelite people.

# your rebellion and your stiff neck

Moses speaks to the Levites as if they were one man, so the word "your" is singular. (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-you]])

# your stiff neck

See how you translated "stubborn" in [Deuteronomy 9:6](../09/06.md).

# how much more after my death?

This rhetorical question emphasizes how rebellious the people were. It can be translated as a statement. AT: "you will be even more rebellious after I die." (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-rquestion]])

# so that I may speak these words in their ears

Here "in their ears" means the people themselves. AT: "so that I may speak the words of this song to them" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-synecdoche]])

# call heaven and earth to witness against them

Possible meanings are 1) Moses is calling on all those who live in heaven and earth to be witnesses to what he says or 2) Moses is speaking to heaven and earth as if they are people, and he is calling them to be witnesses to what he says. A similar phrase appears in [Deuteronomy 30:19](../30/19.md). (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metonymy]] and [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-personification]] and [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-apostrophe]])

# you will utterly corrupt yourselves

"you will do what is completely wrong." See how you translated these words in [Deuteronomy 4:16](../04/15.md).

# turn aside out of the path that I have commanded you

"stop following the instructions I have given to you." See how you translated these words in [Deuteronomy 9:12](../09/11.md).

# what is evil in the sight of Yahweh

The sight of Yahweh represents Yahweh's judgment or evaluation. AT: "what is evil in Yahweh's judgment" or "what Yahweh considers to be evil" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metaphor]])

# through the work of your hands

Here "your hands" means the people themselves. AT: "because of what you have made" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-synecdoche]])

# translationWords

* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/rebel]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/stiffnecked]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/assembly]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/elder]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/tribe]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/word]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/heaven]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/earth]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/testimony]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/corrupt]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/turn]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/command]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/evil]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/angry]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/hand]]