# General Information:

Throughout chapter 23, Joash is referred to as "the king." It may be helpful to your readers to occasionally add "King Joash" or "Joash the king" to make his identity explicit. (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-explicit]])

# Jehoiada

the chief priest who served in the temple and was faithful to God. He was an advisor to Joash. (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/translate-names]])

# showed his strength

He decided it was time to challenge Athaliah's rule and reveal that Joash was alive and ready to be king. AT: "decided to act"

# the commanders of hundreds

The phrase "commander of hundreds" is probably an official title for a military officer. Possible meanings are 1) the word "hundreds" represents the exact amount of soldiers that these commanders led. AT: "the commanders of 100 soldiers" or 2) the word translated as "hundreds" does not represent an exact number, but is the name of a military division. AT: "the commanders of military divisions" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/translate-numbers]])

# entered into a covenant

"made an agreement"

# Azariah ... Ishmael ... Azariah ... Maaseiah ... Elishaphat

These five men were the commanders of hundreds of soldiers. (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/translate-names]])

# Jeroham ... Jehohanan ... Obed ... Adaiah ... Zichri

These are men's names. (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/translate-names]])

# the heads of the ancestral houses of Israel

Here "heads" is a metaphor for the most important part. And "houses" represents the families. AT: "leaders of the founding families of Israel" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metaphor]] and [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metonymy]])

# the king's son

Here, "king" refers to Joash's father. AT: "Joash, the son of the king"

# translationWords

* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/covenant]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/commander]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/levite]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/head]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/house]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/assembly]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/houseofgod]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/reign]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/descendant]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/david]]