# Listen before me in silence

Here "me" refers to God.

# you coastlands

This refers to the people who live on the islands and in the lands bordering or beyond the Mediterranean Sea. (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metonymy]] and [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-apostrophe]])

# renew their strength

See how you translated this phrase in [Isaiah 40:31](../40/29.md).

# let them come near and speak; let us come near together to argue a dispute

These two phrases share similar meanings. The second explains the reason for the first. AT: "then let them come near so they may speak and reason with me" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-parallelism]])

# Who has stirred up one from the east, calling him in righteousness to his service?

Yahweh uses this question to emphasize that he is the one who caused this ruler from the east to be victorious. AT: "I am the one who called this powerful ruler from the east and put him in my good service." (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-rquestion]])

# He hands nations over to him

"I give the nations over to him" or "The one who does these things hands nations over to him"

# He turns them to dust with his sword, like windblown stubble with his bow

Turning them to dust and stubble is a metaphor or exaggeration for completely destroying everything the people of these nations have made. The armies of one from the east will conquer these nations and scatter the people easily. (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metaphor]] and [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-simile]] and [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-hyperbole]])

# translationWords

* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/nation]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/call]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/hand]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/king]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/sword]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/bowweapon]]