# General Information:

Yahweh continues speaking to the coastlands and the nations.

# He pursues them and passes by safely

"The ruler from the east pursues the nations"

# by a swift path that his feet scarcely touch

Possible meanings are 1) this is a metaphor in which he and his army moving very quickly is spoken of as if his feet barely touch the ground. AT: "by a path on which he moves with great speed" or 2) "feet" represents the whole person and the phrase indicates that this is a path that they have not traveled before. AT: "by a path that he has never traveled before" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metaphor]] and [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-synecdoche]])

# Who has performed and accomplished these deeds?

Yahweh uses this question to emphasize that he is the one who has done these things. AT: "I have performed and accomplished these deeds." (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-rquestion]])

# Who has summoned the generations from the beginning?

Here the word "generations" represents all of human history, which Yahweh created and directed throughout history. The rhetorical question anticipates the answer, Yahweh. AT: "I have summoned the generations of humanity from the beginning." (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-rquestion]])

# performed and accomplished

These two words mean basically the same thing and emphasize that Yahweh is the one who has done these things. (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-doublet]])

# the first, and with the last ones

Possible meanings are 1) that Yahweh existed before creation and will exist at the end of creation or 2) that Yahweh was before the first generation of humanity and will be at the last generation of humanity.