# General Information:

Yahweh continues speaking.

# I have raised up one

Yahweh speaks of appointing a person as if he raised that person up. AT: "I have appointed one" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metaphor]])

# from the sun's rising

This refers to the east, the direction from which the sun rises. AT: "from the east" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-idiom]])

# him who calls on my name

Possible meanings are 1) that this person invokes Yahweh for his success or 2) that this person worships Yahweh.

# he will trample the rulers

Conquering the rulers of other nations is spoken of as if it were trampling them under foot. AT: "he will conquer the rulers" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metaphor]])

# like a potter who is treading on the clay

Yahweh compares the way in which this person will trample the other rulers with the way that a potter tramples on clay to mix it with water. (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-simile]])

# Who announced this from the beginning, that we might know? Before this time, that we may say, "He is right"?

Yahweh uses these rhetorical questions to mock the idols that the people worship. The implied answers are 1) that the idols have not done these things and 2) that Yahweh is the one who has done these things. AT: "None of the idols announced this from the beginning, that we might know. And none of them announced this before time, that we may say, 'He is right.'" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-rquestion]] and[[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-ellipsis]])

# Indeed none of them decreed it, yes, none heard you say anything

"Indeed, none of the idols decreed it. Indeed, no one heard you idols say anything"