# The commander for the fourth month was Asahel brother of Joab

"Asahel, brother of Joab, was the commander for the fourth month"

# the fourth month

"the 4th month." This is the fourth month of the Hebrew calendar. It is during the last part of June and the first part of July on Western calendars. (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/translate-hebrewmonths]] and [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/translate-ordinal]])

# Asahel ... Zebadiah ... Shamhuth ... Izrah

These are the names of men. (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/translate-names]])

# his division

"his military group"

# twenty-four thousand men

"24,000 men" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/translate-numbers]])

# fifth month

"the 5th month." This is the fifth month of the Hebrew calendar. It is during the last part of July and the first part of August on Western calendars. (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/translate-hebrewmonths]] and [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/translate-ordinal]])

# sixth month

"the 6th month." This is the sixth month of the Hebrew calendar. It is during the last part of August and the first part of September on Western calendars. (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/translate-hebrewmonths]] and [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/translate-ordinal]])

# Ira ... Ikkesh

Translate the names of these men the same as you did in [1 Chronicles 11:28](../11/26.md). (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/translate-names]])

# Tekoa

This is the name of a place. (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/translate-names]])

# translationWords

* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/names/joab]]