# Connecting Statement:

Paul continues with some specific instructions to the believers in Philippi on unity and then gives instructions to help them live for the Lord.

# General Information:

When Paul says, "my true companion," the word "you" is singular. Paul does not say the name of the person. He calls him that to show he worked with Paul to spread the gospel. (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-you]])

# Therefore, my beloved brothers whom I long for

"My fellow believers, I love you and I greatly desire to see you"

# brothers

See how you translated this in [Philippians 1:12](../01/12.md).

# my joy and crown

Paul uses the word "joy" to mean that the Philippian church is the cause of his happiness. A "crown" was made of leaves, and a man wore it on his head as a sign of honor after he won an important game. Here the word "crown" means the Philippian church brought honor to Paul before God. AT: "You give me joy because you have believed in Jesus, and you are my reward and honor for my work" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metonymy]])

# in this way stand firm in the Lord, beloved friends

"so continue living for the Lord in the way that I have taught you, dear friends"

# I am pleading with Euodia, and I am pleading with Syntyche

These are women who were believers and helped Paul in the church at Philippi. AT: "I beg Euodia, and I beg Syntyche" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/translate-names]])

# be of the same mind in the Lord

The phrase "be of the same mind" means to have the same attitude or opinion. AT: "agree with each other because you both believe in the same Lord" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metonymy]])

# Yes, I ask you, my true companion

Here "you" refers to the "true fellow worker" and is singular. (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-you]])

# true companion

This metaphor is from farming, where two animals would be bound to the same yoke, and so they work together. AT: "fellow worker" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metaphor]])

# along with Clement

Clement was a man who was a believer and worker in the church at Philippi. (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/translate-names]])

# whose names are in the Book of Life

"whose names God has written in the Book of Life"

# translationWords

* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/brother]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/joy]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/crown]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/lordgod]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/yoke]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/labor]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/goodnews]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/bookoflife]]