# Connecting Statement:

Yahweh continues speaking to Aaron.

# They are a gift to you

Yahweh appointing the Levites to help Aaron is spoken of as if they were a gift that Yahweh were giving to Aaron. AT: "They are like a gift to you" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metaphor]])

# given to me

Here "given" to God represents being set apart to serve God. This can be stated in active form. AT: "which I have set apart for myself" or "and I have set them apart for myself" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metonymy]] and [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-activepassive]])

# only you and your sons

Here "you" and "your" are singular and refer to Aaron. Other occurrences of "you" and "your" are plural and refer to Aaron and his sons. (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-you]])

# exercise the priesthood

"do the work of priests"

# everything inside the curtain

Being inside the curtain represents being inside the room behind the curtain. AT: "everything in the room behind the curtain" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metonymy]])

# Any foreigner who approaches must be put to death

This can be stated in active form. AT: "Any foreigner who approaches must die" or "You must put to death any foreigner who approaches" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-activepassive]])

# who approaches

What they should not approach can be stated clearly. AT: "who approaches the sacred things" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-explicit]])

# translationWords

* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/descendant]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/gift]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/curtain]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/fulfill]]