# Connecting Statement:

God continues speaking to Aaron.

# I have given to you

God speaks as if he had already done this because it is a decision that he had already made. AT: "I give to you"

# as a continual share

A share is a portion of something that someone receives. AT: "as the portion that you will continually receive"

# an everlasting covenant of salt ... a binding covenant forever

The two phrases refer to the same thing. Together they emphasize that the covenant will endure forever. AT: "an agreement forever" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-parallelism]])

# an everlasting covenant of salt

"a covenant made with salt." Salt represented permanence and was used in offerings and covenant meals. AT: "a permanent covenant" or "an everlasting covenant" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/translate-symaction]])

# You will have no inheritance in the people's land

God speaks of the land that the other people will possess as if they will inherit it. AT: "You will not possess any of the people's land" or "You will not receive any of the land that the Israelites will possess" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metaphor]])

# I am your share and inheritance

God speaks of the great honor that Aaron and his descendants will have by serving him as priests as if God were something that they will inherit. AT: "Instead, I am what you will have" or "Instead, I will allow you to serve me and I will provide for you through that service" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metaphor]])