# Connecting Statement:

This continues the missionary journeys of Paul with Silas.

# General Information:

Timothy is introduced into the story and joins Paul and Silas. Verses 1 and 2 give background information about Timothy. (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/writing-background]])

# General Information:

The first, third, and fourth instances of the word "him" refer to Timothy. The second "him" refers to Paul.

# Paul also came

Here "came" can be translated as "went." (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-go]])

# Derbe

This is the name of a city in Asia Minor. See how you translated it in [Acts 14:6](../14/05.md).

# behold

The word "behold" alerts us to a new person in the narrative. Your language may have a way of doing this.

# who believed

The words "in Christ" are understood. AT: "who believed in Christ" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-ellipsis]])

# He was well spoken of by the brothers

This can be stated in active from. AT: "The brothers spoke well of him" or "Timothy had a good reputation among the brothers" or "The brothers said good things about him" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-activepassive]])

# by the brothers

Here "brothers" refers to believers. AT: "by the believers"

# circumcised him

It is possible that Paul himself circumcised Timothy, but it is more likely that he had someone else circumcise Timothy.

# because of the Jews that were in those places

"because of the Jews living in the areas where Paul and Timothy would be traveling"

# for they all knew that his father was a Greek

Since Greek men did not have their sons circumcised, the Jews would have known Timothy was not circumcised, and they would have rejected Paul and Timothy before hearing their message about Christ. (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-explicit]])

# translationWords

* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/paul]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/lystra]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/disciple]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/timothy]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/jew]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/believe]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/greek]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/brother]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/iconium]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/circumcise]]