# Connecting Statement:

This ends the story of Lydia.

# A certain woman named Lydia

Here "A certain woman" introduces a new person in the story. AT: "There was a woman named Lydia" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/writing-participants]])

# a seller of purple

Here "cloth" is understood. AT: "a merchant who sold purple cloth" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-ellipsis]])

# Thyatira

This is the name of a city. (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/translate-names]])

# worshiped God

A worshiper of God is a Gentile who gives praise to God and follows him, but does not obey all of the Jewish laws.

# The Lord opened her heart to pay attention

For the Lord to cause someone to pay attention and believe a message is spoken of as if he were opening a person's heart. AT: "The Lord caused her to listen well and to believe" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metaphor]])

# opened her heart

Here "heart" stands for a person's mind. Also, the author speaks about the "heart" or "mind" as if it were a box that a person could open so it is ready for someone to fill it. (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metonymy]] and [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metaphor]])

# what was said by Paul

This can be stated in active form. AT: "what Paul said" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-activepassive]])

# When she and her house were baptized

This can be stated in active form. AT: "When they baptized Lydia and members of her household" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-activepassive]])

# her house

Here "house" represents the people who live in her house. AT: "the members of her household" or "her family and household servants" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metonymy]])

# translationWords

* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/worship]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/god]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/lord]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/heart]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/names/paul]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/baptize]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/judge]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/faithful]]