# Connecting Statement:

This begins the first event in another short story during Paul's travels; it is about a young fortune teller.

# General Information:

Background information is given here to explain that this young fortune teller brought much financial gain to her masters by guessing people's futures. (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/writing-background]])

# It came about that

This phrase marks the beginning of a new part of the story. If your language has a way for doing this, you could consider using it here.

# a certain young woman

The phrase "a certain" introduces a new person to the story. AT: "there was a young woman" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/writing-participants]])

# a spirit of divination

An evil spirit spoke to her often about the immediate future of people.

# the way of salvation

How a person can be saved is spoken of here as if it were a way or path that a person walks on. AT: "how God can save you" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metaphor]])

# But Paul, being greatly annoyed by her, turned

This can be stated in active form. AT: "But she greatly annoyed Paul so he turned around" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-activepassive]])

# in the name of Jesus Christ

Here "name" stands for speaking with the authority or as the representative of Jesus Christ. (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metonymy]])

# it came out right away

"the spirit came out immediately"

# translationWords

* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/pray]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/spirit]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/divination]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/lord]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/paul]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/servant]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/mosthigh]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/proclaim]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/salvation]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/biblicaltimeday]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/command]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/name]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/jesus]]