# Speak to him and say

"Speak to Joshua and say"

# his name is Branch

The word "Branch" refers to a messianic figure that would serve as king over Yahweh's people. Yahweh speaks of this person as if he were a branch that grows out from a tree. Since the word "Branch" is a title, it should be translated with an equivalent word in your language. See how you translated this name in [Zechariah 3:8](../03/08.md). (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metaphor]])

# He will grow up where he is

The phrase "grow up" refers to the growth of a plant, and so continues the metaphor of this person as a "Branch." This likely refers to this person appearing or coming into power as the one who would supervise the rebuilding of the temple. (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metaphor]])

# He will be a priest on his throne

Possible meanings are 1) the "Branch" will be both priest and king or 2) the "Branch" will be king, and another person will be a priest who will share the royal power. AT: "There will be a priest upon his throne"

# he will bear a counsel of peace between the two

The words "the two" refer to the roles of king and priest. The meaning of this phrase depends upon the meaning of the previous phrase. Possible meanings are 1) the "Branch" will faithfully carry out his duties as both priest and king and not forsake one in order to fulfill the other or 2) the "Branch" who serves as king and the other person who serves as a priest will each carry out their duties faithfully and they will work together in peace.

# translationWords

* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/yahwehofhosts]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/temple]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/splendor]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/ruler]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/throne]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/priest]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/understand]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/peace]]