# General Information:

Yahweh, through the prophet Jeremiah, has just told the people about the drought.

# our iniquities testify against us

Here their "iniquities" are spoken of as if they were people who testified against them about their wrong doing. AT: "our iniquities give evidence of our wrongdoing" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-personification]])

# for the sake of your name

Here Yahweh's "name" refers to his reputation. AT: "for the sake of your reputation" or "in order that everyone can see that you are very great and keep your promises" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metonymy]])

# Hope of Israel

This is another name for Yahweh. AT: "You are the hope of Israel" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-explicit]])

# why will you be like a stranger in the land ... Why are you like someone who is astounded

These two question have similar meanings. They both ask if Yahweh is unconcerned with his people and unable to help them. (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-parallelism]])

# why will you be like a stranger in the land, like a foreign wanderer ... just one night

This question speaks of the possibility of Yahweh being unconcerned with helping his people as if he were a stranger just travelling though a place unconcerned with those living there. (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-simile]])

# who stretches out and spends just one night

Both of the phrase have the same meaning and may be combined. AT: "who stays for only one night" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-parallelism]])

# Why are you like someone who is astounded, or like a warrior who has no power to rescue

This speaks of the possibility of Yahweh being unable to help his people as if he were a confused warrior who was unable to rescue anyone. (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-simile]])

# astounded

unable to understand or to think clearly

# your name is called over us

This can be stated in active form. This speaks of the people being Yahweh's people by saying that his name is over them. AT: "we bear your name" or "we are your people" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-activepassive]] and [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-idiom]])

# translationWords

* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/iniquity]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/testimony]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/yahweh]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/name]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/faithless]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/sin]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/hope]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/israel]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/save]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/foreigner]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/proclaim]]