# rolled up the scroll

A scroll was closed by rolling it like a tube to protect the writing inside it.

# attendant

This refers to a synagogue worker who brought out and put away with proper care and reverence the scrolls containing the scriptures.

# were fixed on him

This idiom means "were focused on him" or "were looking intently at him" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-idiom]])

# this scripture has been fulfilled in your hearing

Jesus was saying that he was fulfilling that prophecy by his actions and speech at that very time. This can be stated in active form. AT: "I am fulfilling what this scripture said right now as you are listening to me" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-activepassive]])

# in your hearing

This idiom means "while you are listening to me" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-idiom]])

# amazed at the gracious words which were coming out of his mouth

"surprised about the gracious things that he was saying." Here "gracious" may refer to 1) how well or how persuasively Jesus spoke, or 2) that Jesus spoke words about God's grace.

# Is this not the son of Joseph?

People thought that Joseph was Jesus' father. Joseph was not a religious leader, so they were surprised that his son would preach what he did. AT: "This is just Joseph's son!" or "His father is only Joseph!" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-rquestion]])

# translationWords

* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/synagogue]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/wordofgod]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/fulfill]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/testimony]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/amazed]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/grace]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/word]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/names/josephnt]]