## translationWords

* [[en:tw:authority]]
* [[en:tw:death]]
* [[en:tw:disobey]]
* [[en:tw:evil]]
* [[en:tw:flesh]]
* [[en:tw:ruler]]
* [[en:tw:sin]]
* [[en:tw:spirit]]
* [[en:tw:trespass]]
* [[en:tw:unbeliever]]
* [[en:tw:walk]]
* [[en:tw:world]]
* [[en:tw:wrath]]

## translationNotes

* **And you were dead in your trespasses and your sins** - This shows how sinful people are unable to obey God in the same way a dead person is unable to respond physically. (See: [[en:ta:vol1:translate:figs_metaphor]])
* **your trespasses and your sins** - The words "trespasses" and "sins" mean basically the same thing. Paul uses them together to emphasize the greatness of the people's sin. (See: [[en:ta:vol2:translate:figs_doublet]])
* ** you once walked** - This expresses the behavior of how people live. AT: "you once lived" (see [[en:ta:vol1:translate:figs_idiom]])
* **according to the age of this world** - The apostles also used “world” to refer to the selfish behaviors and corrupt values of the people living in this world. AT: “according to the values of people living in the world” or “following the principles of this present world”
* **ruler of the authorities of the air** - This is referring to the devil or Satan.
* **the spirit of him who** - The phrase "spirit of him" is also referring to the devil or Satan.
* **acted according to the evil desires of our flesh, doing the will of the flesh and of the mind** - The words "flesh" and "mind" are used as metonyms for the entire body. (See: [[en:ta:vol2:translate:figs_metonymy]])
