# God is rich in mercy

"God is abundant in mercy" or "God is very kind to us"

# because of his great love with which he loved us

"because of his great love for us" or "because he loves us very much"

# While we were dead in trespasses, he made us alive together in Christ

This shows how a sinful person is unable to obey God until he is given new spiritual life just like a dead person is unable to respond physically unless he is raised from the dead. (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metaphor]])

# he made us alive together in Christ

"In Christ" and similar expressions are metaphors that frequently occur in the New Testament letters. They express the strongest kind of relationship possible between Christ and those who believe in him.

# by grace you have been saved

This can be stated in an active form. AT: "God saved us because of his great kindness toward us" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-activepassive]])

# God raised us up together with Christ

Here to raise up is an idiom for causing someone who has died to become alive again. Possible meanings are 1) because God has caused Christ to come alive again, God has already given Paul and the believers in Ephesus new spiritual life. AT: "God has given us new life because we belong to Christ" or 2) because God has caused Christ to come alive again, the believers in Ephesus can know that after they die they will live with Christ, and Paul can speak of the believers living again as if it has already happened. AT: "We can be sure that God will give us life as he has caused Christ to come alive again" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-pastforfuture]] and [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-idiom]])

# in the heavenly places

"in the supernatural world." The word "heavenly" refers to the place where God is. See how this is translated in [Ephesians 1:3](../01/03.md).

# in Christ Jesus

"In Christ Jesus" and similar expressions are metaphors that frequently occur in the New Testament letters. They express the strongest kind of relationship possible between Christ and those who believe in him.

# in the ages to come

"in the future"

# translationWords

* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/god]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/mercy]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/love]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/death]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/trespass]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/life]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/inchrist]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/grace]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/save]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/heaven]]