# But now in Christ Jesus

Paul is marking a contrast between the Ephesians before they believed in Christ and after they believed in Christ.

# you who once were far away from God have been brought near by the blood of Christ

Not belonging to God due to sin is spoken of as being far away from God. Belonging to God because of the blood of Christ is spoken of as being brought near to God. AT: "you who once did not belong to God now belong to God because of the blood of Christ" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metaphor]])

# by the blood of Christ

The blood of Christ is a metonym for his death. AT: "by Christ's death" or "when Christ died for us" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metonymy]])

# he is our peace

"Jesus gives us his peace"

# our peace

The word "our" refers to Paul and his readers and so is inclusive. (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-inclusive]])

# He made the two one

"He made the Jews and Gentiles one"

# By his flesh

The words "his flesh," his physical body, are a metonym for his body dying. AT: "By the death of his body on the cross" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metonymy]])

# the wall of hostility

"the wall of hatred" or "the wall of ill will"

# that divided us

The word "us" refers to Paul and the Ephesians. The Ephesians, as Gentiles, were separated from Paul and the other Jews. AT: "that separated us Jews and Gentiles from one another" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-inclusive]])

# he abolished the law of commandments and regulations

Jesus' blood satisfied the law of Moses so that both the Jews and Gentiles can live at peace in God.

# one new man

a single new people, the people of redeemed humanity (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metaphor]])

# in himself

It is union with Christ that makes reconciliation possible between Jews and Gentiles.

# Christ reconciles both peoples

"Christ brings the Jews and the Gentiles together in peace"

# through the cross

The cross here represents Christ's death on the cross. AT: "by means of Christ's death on the cross" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metonymy]])

# putting to death the hostility

Stopping their hostility is spoken of as if he killed their hostility. By dying on the cross Jesus eliminated the reason for Jews and Gentiles to be hostile toward each other. Neither are now required to live according to the law of Moses. AT: "stopping them from hating one another" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metaphor]])