# you Gentiles ... God's household

Paul is again speaking of the spiritual condition of Gentiles after they become believers as he would speak about foreigners becoming citizens of a different nation. (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metaphor]])

# You have been built on the foundation

Paul speaks of God's people as if they were a building. Christ is the cornerstone, the apostles are the foundation, and the believers are the structure. (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metaphor]])

# You have been built

This can be stated in the active tense. AT: "God has built you" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-activepassive]])

# the whole building fits together and grows as a temple

Paul continues to speak of Christ's family as if it were a building. In the same way a builder fits stones together while building, so Christ is fitting us together. (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metaphor]])

# In him ... in the Lord ... in him

"In Christ ... in the Lord Jesus ... in Christ" These metaphors express the strongest kind of relationship possible between Christ and those who believe in him. (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metaphor]])

# you also are being built together as a dwelling place for God in the Spirit

This describes how believers are being put together to become a place where God will permanently live through the power of the Holy Spirit. (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metaphor]])

# you also are being built together

This can be stated as active. AT: "God is also building you together" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-activepassive]])

# translationWords

* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/gentile]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/setapart]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/god]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/apostle]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/prophet]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/christ]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/cornerstone]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/temple]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/inchrist]]