# Connecting Statement:

This is a continuation of King Hezekiah's message to the people of Israel.

# your brothers

Here "brothers" represents other people of Israel. AT: "your people" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metaphor]])

# he made them an object of horror

The abstract noun "horror" can be expressed with the words "horrified" or "horrible." The author writes of what God did to their ancestors in terms of how other people would react when the saw what God did. AT: "he made them something that people would be horrified to see" or "he punished them horribly" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-abstractnouns]] and [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metonymy]])

# give yourselves to Yahweh

This represents submitting to Yahweh. AT: "submit to Yahweh" or "dedicate yourselves to Yahweh" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metaphor]])

# come into his holy place

Here "his holy place" refers to God's temple in Jerusalem. AT: "come to his temple in Jerusalem for it is holy" or "come to his temple in Jerusalem" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metonymy]])

# so that his fierce anger may turn away from you

The author writes of anger as if it were a person that can turn away from people. God's anger turning away from them represents him no longer being angry with them. AT: "so that he will no longer be angry with you" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-personification]])

# if you turn back to Yahweh

Here "turn back to Yahweh" represents submitting to him again. AT: "if you submit again to Yahweh" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metaphor]])

# your brothers and children will find compassion before those who led them away as prisoners

Here "find compassion" is a metaphor for experiencing compassion. Finding it "before those who led them" means those who led them away will show them compassion. AT: "your brothers and children will experience compassion from those who led them away as prisoners" or "those who led your brothers and children away as prisoners will be kind to them" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metaphor]])

# will not turn his face away from you

Here "turn his face away from you" represents rejecting them and refusing to protect them. AT: "will not reject you" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metaphor]])

# if you return to him

Here "return to him" represents submitting to God again. AT: "if you submit again to him" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metaphor]])

# translationWords

* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/brother]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/trespass]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/holyplace]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/eternity]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/worship]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/compassion]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/prison]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/grace]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/mercy]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/face]]