# All the assembly of Judah

Here "Judah" probably refers to the southern tribes of Israel.

# all the people who came together from Israel

Here "Israel" probably refers to the northern tribes of Israel. The people are members of those tribes. They came to Jerusalem, which is in Judah. AT: "all the people who came together from Israel in the north" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-explicit]])

# the foreigners who came from the land of Israel

Here "the land of Israel" probably refers to the land owned by the northern tribes of Israel. AT: "the foreigners who came from the land of Israel in the north" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-explicit]])

# those who lived in Judah

Here "Judah" probably refers to the land owned by the southern tribes of Israel. AT: "the foreigners who lived in Judah" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-explicit]])

# since the time of Solomon son of David, king of Israel

"since the time when Solomon son of David ruled as king of Israel" or "since the Passover Festival that the people held when Solomon son of David was king of Israel"

# there had not been anything like it in Jerusalem

"there had not been any Passover Festival in Jerusalem like this Passover Festival"

# Their voice was heard ... their prayer went up to heaven, the holy place where God lives

These two phrases mean the same thing and imply that God responded favorably to their prayer. AT: "God responded favorably to their prayer, which he heard in heaven, the holy place where he lives" or "God, who lives in the holy heaven, heard their prayer" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-parallelism]])

# Their voice was heard

This can be stated in active form. AT: "God heard their voice" or "God heard what they said to him" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-activepassive]])

# their prayer went up to heaven

Their prayer going up to heaven represents God in heaven paying attention to them praying on earth. (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metaphor]])

# translationWords

* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/foreigner]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/rejoice]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/solomon]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/david]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/bless]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/pray]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/holyplace]]