# General Information:

Jephthah's messengers continue to speak.

# should you now take possession of their land?

Jephthah is rebuking the king of the Ammonites with this rhetorical question. The word "their" refers to the Israel. This question can be translated as a statement. AT: "therefore, you should not take possession of their land." (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-rquestion]])

# Will you not take over the land that Chemosh, your god, gives you?

Jephthah is rebuking the king of the Ammonites with a rhetorical question. This question can be translated as a statement. AT: "You should only take over the land that Chemosh, your god, gives you." (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-rquestion]])

# take over

This is an idiom which means to take control of something. AT: "take control of" or "take possession of" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-idiom]])

# Chemosh

This is the name of a false god. (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/translate-names]])

# Now are you really better than Balak son of Zippor, king of Moab?

Jephthah is rebuking the king of the Ammonites with a rhetorical question. This question can be translated as a statement. AT: "You are not better than Balak son of Zippor, who was king of Moab." (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-rquestion]])

# Balak ... Zippor

These are the names of men. (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/translate-names]])

# Did he dare to have an argument with Israel?

Jephthah is rebuking the king of the Ammonites with a rhetorical question. This question can be translated with a statement. AT: "Yet he did not dare to have an argument with Israel." (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-rquestion]])

# Did he ever wage war against them?

Jephthah is rebuking the king of the Ammonites with a rhetorical question. This question can be translated with a statement. AT: "Nor did he ever wage war against them." (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-rquestion]])

# translationWords

* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/yahweh]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/god]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/israel]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/amorite]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/possess]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/falsegod]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/moab]]