# General Information:

Jephthah's messengers continue to speak.

# three hundred years

"300 years" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/translate-numbers]])

# Heshbon

Translate the name of this city the same way that you did in [Judges 11:19](./19.md).

# Aroer

This is the name of a city. (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/translate-names]])

# Arnon

Translate the name of this city the same way that you did in [Judges 11:13](./12.md).

# why then did you not take them back during that time?

Jephthah is rebuking the king of the Ammonites with a rhetorical question. This question can be translated as a statement. AT: "you should have taken them back during that time." or "now it is too late; you should have taken them back long ago." (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-rquestion]])

# I have not done you wrong, but you are doing me wrong by attacking me

Jephthah is speaking to the Sihon. Here Jephthah speaks about the Israelites as though they were himself and of the Ammonites as if they were Sihon their king. AT: "The Israelites have not done wrong to your people, but your people are doing us wrong by attacking us" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-synecdoche]])

# done you wrong ... doing me wrong

This is an idiom. To do someone wrong means to do something wrong to them. AT: "treated you wrongly ... treating me wrongly" or "treated you unfairly ... treating me unfairly" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-idiom]])

# translationWords

* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/israel]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/wrong]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/yahweh]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/judgeposition]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/ammon]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/king]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/jephthah]]