# At this answer

Here "this answer" refers to Jesus' answer. AT: "When Pilate heard Jesus' answer" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-explicit]])

# Pilate tried to release him

The form of "tried" in the original indicates that Pilate tried "hard" or "repeatedly" to release Jesus. AT: "he tried hard to release Jesus" or "he tried again and again to release Jesus" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-explicit]])

# but the Jews cried out

Here "Jews" is a synecdoche that refers to the Jewish leaders that opposed Jesus. In the original, the form of "cried out" indicates that they cried out or shouted repeatedly. AT: "but the Jewish leaders kept shouting" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-synecdoche]] and [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-explicit]])

# you are not a friend of Caesar

"you are opposing Caesar" or "you are opposing the emperor"

# makes himself a king

"claims that he is a king"

# he brought Jesus out

Here "he" refers to Pilate and is a synecdoche for "Pilate ordered the soldiers." AT: "he ordered the soldiers to bring Jesus out" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-synecdoche]])

# sat down

Important people like Pilate sat down when they performed an official duty, while people who were not so important stood up.

# in the judgment seat

This is the special chair that an important person like Pilate sat in when he was making an official judgment. If your language has a special way to describe this action, you can use it here.

# in a place called "The Pavement,"

This is a special stone platform where only the important people were allowed to go. You can translate this in an active form. AT: "in a place the people called The Pavement," (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-activepassive]])

# Hebrew

This refers to the language that the people of Israel spoke.

# translationWords

* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/pilate]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/jew]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/caesar]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/king]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/judge]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/hebrew]]