# Connecting Statement:

The book of Judges continues the story about Joshua and is also the beginning of a new part of the story.

# Yahweh

This is the name of God that he revealed to his people in the Old Testament. See the translationWord page about Yahweh concerning how to translate this.

# will attack the Canaanites for us

The word "us" refers to the people of Israel, but not to Yahweh. (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-exclusive]])

# Judah will attack

Here "Judah" represents the the men of the tribe of Judah. Yahweh is commanding these men to attack first. AT: "The men of Judah must attack first" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-synecdoche]])

# See

"Look" or "Indeed." This adds emphasis to what follows.

# this land

This refers to the land where the Canaanites lived. AT: "the land of the Canaanites" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-explicit]])

# their brothers

"their fellow Israelites" or "their relatives"

# Come up with us

The people of the tribes of Judah and Simeon were camped with the rest of the Israelite people in the valley of the Jordan River. The land given to Judah was in the hills above the valley. Some languages do not usually indicate whether people were going up or down. AT: "Come with us" or "Go with us"

# that was assigned to us ... that was assigned to you

This can be stated in active form. AT: "that Yahweh assigned to us ... that Yahweh assigned to you" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-activepassive]])

# We will likewise go with you

"We will also go with you" or "In the same way, we will go with you"