# the city of Jerusalem and took it

Here "city" represents the people. AT: "the people who lived in Jerusalem and defeated them" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metonymy]])

# They attacked it

Here "it" refers to the city which represents the people of the city. AT: "They attacked the people of the city" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metonymy]])

# with the edge of the sword

"with the point of the sword." Here "sword" represents the swords and other weapons that the soldiers used in battle. AT: "with their swords" or "with their weapons" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-synecdoche]])

# the men of Judah went down to fight

It was common to use the word "down" when it refers to traveling from Jerusalem. AT: "the men of Judah went to fight"

# in the Negev

"in the southern Judean wilderness"

# foothills

hills at the base of a mountain or mountain range

# the name of Hebron was previously Kiriath Arba

This is background information. Some people who first read this book had probably heard of Kiriath Arba but did not know that it was the same as the city that they called Hebron. (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/writing-background]])

# Sheshai, Ahiman, and Talmai

These are the names of three Canaanite leaders of Hebron. Each leader represents his army. AT: "Sheshai, Ahiman, Talmai, and their armies" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/translate-names]] and [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metonymy]])

# translationWords

* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/names/judah]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/names/jerusalem]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/sword]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/fire]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/names/canaan]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/names/negev]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/names/hebron]]