# Then Solomon began to build ... He prepared ... He began ... that Solomon laid

The readers should understand that Solomon probably commanded other people to do the actual work. AT: "Then Solomon's workers began to build ... They prepared ... They began ... that Solomon's workers laid" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metonymy]])

# Mount Moriah

This is the name of a mountain. (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/translate-names]])

# Ornan the Jebusite

"Ornan" is the name of a man. "Jebusite" is the name of a people group. (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/translate-names]])

# the second day of the second month

"day 2 of month 2." This is the second month of the Hebrew calendar. The second day is near the middle of April on Western calendars. (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/translate-hebrewmonths]] and [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/translate-ordinal]])

# in the fourth year

"in year 4" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/translate-ordinal]])

# Now

This word is used here to mark a break in the main story line. Here the narrator begins to explain the dimensions and the design of the temple.

# sixty cubits ... twenty cubits

"60 cubits ... 20 cubits." A cubit is 46 centimeters. AT: "27.6 meters long ... 9.2 meters" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/translate-numbers]] and [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/translate-bdistance]])

# translationWords

* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/names/solomon]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/houseofgod]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/names/jerusalem]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/thresh]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/names/jebusites]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/biblicaltimeday]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/biblicaltimeyear]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/reign]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/foundation]]