# How long will you sleep ... When will you rise from your sleep?

The teacher uses these questions to scold the lazy person for sleeping too much. AT: "Wake up, you lazy person! Get out of your bed!" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-parallelism]] and [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-rquestion]])

# A little sleep ... of the hands to rest

These are the kinds of things that lazy people say.

# A little sleep, a little slumber

Both of these statements mean the same thing. They can be stated as complete sentences. AT: "I will just sleep a little longer. Let me sleep lightly a little longer" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-parallelism]] and [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-ellipsis]])

# folding of the hands to rest

People often fold their hands while reclining in order to rest more comfortably. AT: "I will just cross my arms comfortably and rest a little" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metonymy]])

# and your poverty will come

This can be stated as a new sentence to make clear that this is a result of being lazy. AT: "If you continue to be lazy, your poverty will come" or "While you sleep, poverty will come" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-explicit]])

# your poverty will come like a robber

The sudden way a lazy person becomes poor is like the sudden way a robber comes and steals things. AT: "you will suddenly become poor, just as if a robber came and stole everything you have" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-simile]])

# and your needs like an armed soldier

The sudden way a lazy person becomes in need of things is like the sudden way an armed soldier takes things from a person. This can be stated as a complete sentence. AT: "and your needs will come to you like an armed soldier" or "and you will become needy just as if an armed soldier stole all your things" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-simile]] and [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-ellipsis]])

# an armed soldier

"a soldier who is holding a weapon" or "a man with a weapon"