# the word of Yahweh came to Jeremiah

This idiom is used to announce that God gave messages to Jeremiah. See how you translated a similar phrase in [Jeremiah 1:2](../01/01.md). AT: "Yahweh gave messages to Jeremiah" or "Yahweh spoke to Jeremiah" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-idiom]])

# to all the people from the least to the greatest

This is a way to refer to people from every social status. Here "least" and "greatest" represent those who are least important and those who are most important. See how you translated this in [Jeremiah 42:1](./01.md). AT: "to all the people from every social status" or "to all the people, including the least important and the most important people" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-merism]])

# to all the people

Most likely not every individual in the town went. The word "all" is a generalization that means very many people went. AT: "to many other people" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-hyperbole]])

# I might lay your pleas before him

"I would present your urgent request to him." Telling the people's request to Yahweh is spoken of as if Jeremiah laid their requests in front of Yahweh. AT: "I might tell him your requests" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metaphor]])

# I will build you and not tear you down

Yahweh refers to the people of Israel like a wall that can be built or torn down. AT: "I will cause you to prosper and I will not destroy you" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metaphor]])

# I will plant you and not pull you up

Yahweh uses another example to express how he will cause the people of Israel to prosper and not be destroyed. He refers to them like a plant in the same way he referred to them as a wall. (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metaphor]] and [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-parallelism]])

# I will turn back the disaster that I have brought on you

A disaster is here spoken of as something that a person can put onto someone else. AT: "I will prevent the disaster that I have caused to happen to you" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metaphor]])

# translationWords

* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/wordofgod]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/commander]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/israel]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/life]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/turn]]