# Yahweh of hosts ... says this

Jeremiah often uses these words to introduce an important message from Yahweh. See how you translated this in [Jeremiah 6:6](../06/06.md).

# my wrath and my fury were poured out on the inhabitants of Jerusalem

Yahweh punishing people because he is very angry is spoken of as if wrath and fury were liquids that he poured out on the people. This can be stated in active form. AT: "I became very angry and punished the people of Jerusalem" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metaphor]] and [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-activepassive]])

# my wrath and my fury

The words "wrath" and "fury" mean basically the same thing. Together they emphasize the intensity of his wrath. AT: "my terrible wrath" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-doublet]])

# in the same way my fury will be poured out on you

Yahweh punishing people because he is very angry is spoken of as if fury were a liquid that he pours out on the people. This can be stated in active form. AT: "I will became very angry and punish you" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metaphor]] and [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-activepassive]])

# You will become an object of cursing and a horror, an object for speaking curses, and something dishonorable

All of these statements mean basically the same thing and emphasize how badly the nations will treat the people of Judah after Yahweh punishes them. AT: "People will be terrified when they see what has happened to you. They will curse and mock you" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-parallelism]])

# I have been a witness against you

The phrase "been a witness against" is an idiom that means to give a warning. AT: "I have warned you" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-idiom]])

# translationWords

* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/wrath]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/jerusalem]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/curse]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/dishonor]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/witness]]