# General Information:

The angel clothed in linen continues speaking to Daniel.

# Many will be purified, cleansed, and refined

Yahweh does the purifying. These three terms mean basically the same thing. AT: "Yahweh will purify, cleanse, and refine many people" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-activepassive]] and [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-doublet]])

# refined

purified by removing anything that does not belong in them

# but the wicked will act wickedly

The evil people will do evil or sinful things.

# None of the wicked will understand

The evil people can not understand spiritual knowledge.

# but those who are wise will understand

"but those who obey Yahweh are wise and will understand"

# the regular burnt offering is ... is set up

The king of the north is the one who stops the temple sacrifices. AT: "the king of the North takes away the regular burnt offering and sets up the abomination that causes complete desolation" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-explicit]])

# the abomination that causes complete desolation

This refers to an idol that will make the temple desolate, that is, that will cause God to leave his temple. See how you translated this in [Daniel 11:31](../11/31.md). AT: "the disgusting idol that will cause God to abandon the temple" or "the disgusting thing that will make the temple unclean" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-idiom]])

# 1,290 days

"one thousand two and hundred ninety days" or "twelve hundred and ninety days." Here "days" refers to a period of time. Most commonly rendered as days, but can also imply years. (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/translate-numbers]])

# translationWords

* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/purify]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/evil]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/wise]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/burntoffering]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/abomination]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/desolate]]