# General Information:

Here the words "They," "they," and "them" refer to Paul, Barnabas, and certain others. (See: [Acts 15:2](./01.md))

# They therefore, being sent by the church

This can be stated in active form. AT: "Therefore the community of believers sent them from Antioch to Jerusalem" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-activepassive]])

# being sent by the church

Here "church" stands for the people that were a part of the church. (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metonymy]])

# passed through ... announced

The words "passed through" and "announced" indicate they spent some time in different places sharing in detail what God was doing.

# announced the conversion of the Gentiles

The abstract noun "conversion" means the Gentiles were rejecting their false gods and believing in God. AT: "announced to the community of believers in those places that Gentiles were believing in God" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-abstractnouns]])

# They brought great joy to all the brothers

Their message causing the brothers to be joyful is spoken of as if "joy" were an object that they brought to the brothers. AT: "What they said caused their fellow believers to rejoice" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metaphor]])

# the brothers

Here "brothers" refers to fellow believers.

# they were welcomed by the church and the apostles and the elders

This can be stated in active form. AT: "the apostles, the elders, and the rest of the community of believers welcomed them" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-activepassive]])

# with them

"through them"

# translationWords

* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/church]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/phonecia]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/samaria]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/gentile]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/joy]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/jerusalem]]