# Connecting Statement:

James quotes the prophet Amos from the Old Testament.

# General Information:

Here "I" refers to God who spoke through the words of his prophet.

# The words of the prophets agree

Here "words" stands for a message. AT: "What the prophets said agrees" or "The prophets agree" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metonymy]])

# agree with this

"confirm this truth"

# as it is written

This can be stated in active form. AT: "as they wrote" or "as the prophet Amos wrote long ago" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-activepassive]])

# I will build again the tent of David, which has fallen down ... its ruins again

This speaks of God's again choosing one of David's descendants to rule over his people as though he were setting up a tent again after it fell down. (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metaphor]])

# tent

Here "tent" stands for David's family. (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metonymy]])

# the remnant of men may seek the Lord

This speaks about people wanting to obey God and learn more about him as if they were literally looking for him. (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metaphor]])

# remnant of men

Here "men" includes males and females. AT: "remnant of people" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-gendernotations]])

# may seek the Lord

God is speaking about himself in the third person. AT: "may seek me, the Lord" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-123person]])

# including all the Gentiles called by my name

This can be stated in active form. AT: "including all the Gentiles who belong to me" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-activepassive]])

# my name

Here "my name" stands for God. (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metonymy]])

# that have been known

This can be stated in active form. AT: "that people have known" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-activepassive]])

# translationWords

* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/prophet]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/written]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/tent]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/david]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/restore]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/ruin]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/remnant]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/gentile]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/lordgod]]