# Connecting Statement:

James finishes speaking to the apostles and elders. (See: [Acts 15:2](./03.md) and [Acts 15:13](./13.md))

# General Information:

Here "we" includes James, the apostles, and the elders. (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-inclusive]])

# we should not trouble those of the Gentiles

You can make explicit in what way James does not want to trouble the Gentiles. AT: "we should not require the Gentiles to become circumcised and obey the laws of Moses" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-explicit]])

# who turn to God

A person who starts obeying God is spoken of as if the person is physically turning towards God. (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metaphor]])

# they must keep away from the pollution of idols ... sexual immorality ... strangled ... blood

Sexual immorality, strangling animals, and consuming blood were often part of ceremonies to worship idols and false gods.

# pollution of idols

This possibly refers to eating the meat of an animal that someone has sacrificed to an idol or to anything to do with idol worship. (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-explicit]])

# from the meat of strangled animals, and from blood

God did not allow Jews to eat meat that still had the blood in it. Also, even earlier in Moses' writings in Genesis, God had forbidden the drinking of blood. Therefore, they could not eat an animal that someone strangled because the blood was not properly drained from the body of the animal. (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-explicit]])

# Moses has been proclaimed in every city ... and he is read in the synagogues every Sabbath

James is implying that Gentiles know how important these rules are because Jews preach them in every city where there is a synagogue. It also implies the Gentiles can go to the teachers from the synagogues to learn more about these rules. (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-explicit]])

# Moses has been proclaimed

Here "Moses" represents the law of Moses. This can be stated in active form. AT: "The law of Moses has been proclaimed" or "Jews have taught the law of Moses" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metonymy]] and [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-activepassive]])

# in every city

The word "every" here is a generalization. AT: "in many cities" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-hyperbole]])

# and he is read

Here "he" refers to Moses, whose name here represents his law. AT: "and the law is read" or "and they read the law" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metonymy]])

# translationWords

* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/turn]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/god]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/idol]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/fornication]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/blood]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/generation]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/synagogue]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/sabbath]]