# General Information:

Here the word "them" refers to Judas and Silas. The word "They" refers to the apostles, elders, and other believers of the church in Jerusalem.

# the whole church

Here "church" refers to the people who are a part of the church in Jerusalem. AT: "the church in Jerusalem" or "the whole community of believers in Jerusalem" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-explicit]] and [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metonymy]])

# Judas called Barsabbas

This is the name of a man. "Barsabbas" is a second name that people called him. (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/translate-names]])

# From the apostles and elders, your brothers, to the Gentile brothers in Antioch, Syria, and Cilicia: Greetings!

This is the introduction of the letter. Your language may have a way of introducing the author of the letter and to whom it is written. AT: "This letter is from your brothers, the apostles and elders. We are writing to you Gentile believers in Antioch, Syria, and Cilicia. Greetings to you" or "To our Gentile brothers in Antioch, Syria, and Cilicia. Greetings from the apostles and elders, your brothers"

# your brothers ... the Gentile brothers

Here the word "brothers" refers to fellow believers. By using these words, the apostles and elders assure the Gentile believers that they accept them as fellow believers.

# Cilicia

This is the name of a province on the coast in Asia Minor north of the Island of Cyprus. (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/translate-names]])

# translationWords

* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/apostle]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/elder]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/church]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/silas]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/antioch]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/paul]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/barnabas]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/brother]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/gentile]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/syria]]