# General Information:

The expressions in these verses are all wishes that the day of Job's birth would no longer exist. This may imply that the day, although in the past, still existed somehow. Translators may decide to translate as the UDB does: "I wish that the day when I was born could have been dark."

# May that day be dark ... neither may the sun shine on it

These two clauses describe the darkness of the day of Job's birth, thus repeating Job's regret that he had been born. (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-parallelism]])

# May that day be dark

This is a wish for that day to not exist any longer. AT: "may that day disappear" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metaphor]])

# May darkness and the shadow of death claim it for their own

Here darkness and the shadow of death are spoken of as if they were people who could claim something as their own possession. The word "it" refers to the day of Job's birth. (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-personification]])

# the shadow of death

Here a shadow represents death itself. AT: "death like a shadow" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metaphor]])

# May a cloud live over it

Here a cloud is spoken of as if it were a person who could live over the day of Job's birth. AT: "May a cloud cover it so no one can see it" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metaphor]])

# everything that makes the day black

This refers to things that block out the sun's light and create darkness. Here "black" represents darkness. (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metaphor]])

# terrify it

"terrify that day." The day is spoken of as if it were a person who could be terrified by the darkness. (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-personification]])