# those who know how to wake up Leviathan

Job is probably referring here to sorcerers and magicians, who he believes might be able to even provoke Leviathan in spreading chaos. Leviathan was an animal well known in Ancient Near Eastern mythology, which was thought to be responsible for all kinds of destruction, disorder, and chaos.

# May the stars of that day's dawn be dark

This refers to the planets that are often visible just before dawn. AT: "May the stars that appear before that day's first light be dark"

# May that day look for light, but find none

The day of Job's birth is spoken of as if it were a person looking for something. AT: "May that day hope for light, but have none" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-personification]])

# neither may it see the eyelids of the dawn

The dawn is spoken of as if it had eyelids as a person has. AT: "nor see the first light of the dawn" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-personification]])

# because it did not shut up the doors of my mother's womb

A woman's womb is spoken of as if it were a container with doors. AT: "because that day did not close my mother's womb" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metaphor]])

# because it did not hide trouble from my eyes

The day of Job's birth is spoken of here as if it were a person who could hide something. (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-personification]])

# from my eyes

Here "eyes" represents the person who sees with them. AT: "from me" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metonymy]])

# translationWords

* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/curse]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/names/leviathan]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/light]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/womb]]