# Why is light given to him who is in misery? Why is life given to the one who is bitter in soul

Job's two questions mean basically the same thing. He is wondering why those who face hardship continue to live. (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-parallelism]])

# Why is light given to him who is in misery?

Here Job is wondering why people must stay alive and suffer. AT: "I do not understand why God gives life to a person who is suffering" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-rquestion]])

# light

Here light represents life. (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metaphor]])

# Why is life given to the one who is bitter in soul ... hidden treasure?

"why does God give life to a miserable person?" AT: "I do not understand why God gives life to a person who is very unhappy ... hidden treasure" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-rquestion]])

# to one who longs for death without it coming

Here death is spoken of as if it were an object coming toward someone. AT: "to a person who no longer wants to be alive, but is still alive" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metaphor]])

# to one who digs for death more than for hidden treasure

A person hoping to die is spoken of as if he were digging for buried treasure. AT: "to a person who wants to stop living more than he wants to look for hidden riches" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metaphor]])

# Why is light given to one who rejoices very much and is glad when he finds the grave

Here Job uses a question to make a statement. AT: "I do not understand why God allows a person to keep living when the person would be very happy to be buried in the ground" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-rquestion]])

# one who rejoices very much and is glad

The phrase "rejoices very much" means basically the same thing as "is glad." Together, the two phrases emphasize the intensity of gladness. AT: "one who is extremely happy" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-doublet]])

# when he finds the grave

This is a polite way of referring to dying. AT: "when he is dead and can be buried" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-euphemism]])

# the grave

Here the grave represents death. (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metonymy]])

# translationWords

* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/life]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/soul]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/death]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/joy]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/tomb]]