# Connecting Statement:

The story shifts from Stephen to Saul in these verses.

# General Information:

It may be helpful to your audience to move these parts of the story about Stephen together by using a verse bridge as the UDB does. (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/translate-versebridge]])

# So there began ... except the apostles

This part of verse 1 is background information about the persecution that began after Stephen's death. This explains why Saul was persecuting the believers in verse 3. (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/writing-background]])

# that day

This refers to the day that Stephen died. (See: [Acts 7:59-60](../07/59.md))

# the believers were all scattered

The word "all" is a generalization to express that a large number of the believers left Jerusalem because of the persecution. (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-hyperbole]])

# except the apostles

This statement implies that the apostles remained in Jerusalem even though they also experienced this great persecution. (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-explicit]])

# Devout men

"God-fearing men" or "Men who feared God"

# made great lamentation over him

"greatly mourned his death"

# dragged out men and women

Saul forcefully took Jewish believers out of their home and put them into prison.

# house after house

"houses one by one"

# dragged out men and women

"took away men and women by force"

# men and women

This refers to men and women who believed in Jesus. (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-explicit]])

# translationWords

* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/paul]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/persecute]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/church]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/jerusalem]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/believer]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/judea]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/samaria]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/apostle]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/church]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/prison]]