# Connecting Statement:

Luke continues the news of what was happening in Samaria.

# Now when the apostles in Jerusalem heard

This marks the beginning of a new part of the story of the Samaritan's becoming believers. (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/writing-newevent]])

# Samaria

This refers to the many people, who had become believers, throughout the district of Samaria. (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-synecdoche]])

# had received

"had believed" or "had accepted"

# When they had come down

"when Peter and John had come down"

# come down

This phrase is used here because Samaria is lower in elevation than Jerusalem.

# they prayed for them

"Peter and John prayed for the Samaritan believers"

# that they might receive the Holy Spirit

"that the Samaritan believers might receive the Holy Spirit"

# they had only been baptized

This can be stated in active form. AT: "Philip had only baptized the Samaritan believers" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-activepassive]])

# they had only been baptized into the name of the Lord Jesus

Here "name" represents authority, and being baptized into his name represents being baptized in order to be under his authority. AT: "they had only been baptized to become disciples of the Lord Jesus" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metonymy]])

# Peter and John placed their hands on them

The word "them" refers to the Samaritan people who believed Stephen's message of the gospel.

# placed their hands on them

This symbolic action shows that Peter and John wanted God to give the Holy Spirit to the believers. (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/translate-symaction]])

# translationWords

* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/apostle]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/names/jerusalem]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/names/samaria]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/receive]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/wordofgod]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/send]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/names/peter]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/names/johntheapostle]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/pray]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/holyspirit]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/baptize]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/hand]]