# General Information:

Here the words him, your, you, and yours all refer to Simon.

# May your silver perish along with you

"May you and your money be destroyed"

# the gift of God

Here this refers to the ability to give the Holy Spirit by laying his hands on someone.

# You have no part or share in this matter

The words "part" and "share" mean the same thing and are used for emphasis. AT: "You may not participate in this work" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-doublet]])

# your heart is not right

Here "heart" is a metonym for a person's thoughts or motives. AT: "you are not right in your heart" or "the motives of your mind are not right" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metonomy]])

# for the intention of your heart

Here "heart" is a metonym for a person's thoughts. AT: "for what you intended to do" or "for what you were thinking of doing" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metonomy]])

# this wickedness

"these evil thoughts"

# he might perhaps forgive

"he may be willing to forgive"

# in the poison of bitterness

Here "in the poison of bitterness" is a metaphor for being very envious. It speaks of envy as if it tastes bitter and poisons the person who is envious. AT: "very envious" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metaphor]])

# in the bonds of sin

The phrase "bonds of sin" is spoken of as if sin can restrain Simon and keep him a prisoner. It is metaphor that means Simon is not able to stop himself from sinning. AT: "because you continue sinning you are like a prisoner" or "you are like a prisoner to sin" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metaphor]])

# translationWords

* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/names/peter]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/perish]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/gift]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/god]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/heart]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/repent]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/evil]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/pray]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/forgive]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/bond]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/sin]]