# Connecting Statement:

This begins the part of the story about Philip and the man from Ethiopia.

# General Information:

Verse 27 gives background information about the man from Ethiopia. (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/writing-background]])

# Now

This marks a transition in the story. (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/writing-newevent]])

# Arise and go

These verbs work together to emphasize that he should get ready to start a long journey that will take some time. AT: "Get ready to travel"

# goes down from Jerusalem to Gaza

The phrase "goes down" is used here because Jerusalem is higher in elevation than Gaza.

# This road is in a desert

Most scholars believe Luke added this comment to describe the area through which Philip would travel. (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/writing-background]])

# Behold

The word "behold" alerts us to a new person in the story. Your language may have a way of doing this. (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/writing-participants]])

# eunuch

The emphasis of "eunuch" here is about the Ethiopian's being a high government official, not so much his physical state of being castrated.

# Candace

This was a title for the queens of Ethiopia. It is similar to the way the word Pharaoh was used for the kings of Egypt. (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/translate-names]])

# He had come to Jerusalem to worship

This implies that he was a Gentile who believed in God and had come to worship at the Jewish temple. AT: "He had come to worship God at the temple in Jerusalem" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-explicit]])

# chariot

Possibly "wagon" or "carriage" is more fitting in this context. Chariots are normally mentioned as a vehicle for war, not as a vehicle for long-distance travel. Also, people stood to ride in chariots.

# reading the prophet Isaiah

This is the Old Testament book Isaiah. AT: "reading from the book of the prophet Isaiah" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metonymy]])

# translationWords

* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/angel]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/lordgod]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/names/philip]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/names/jerusalem]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/names/gaza]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/desert]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/raise]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/names/ethiopia]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/eunuch]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/queen]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/chariot]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/prophet]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/names/isaiah]]