# Connecting Statement:

Having already warned the people of Corinth about other leaders who were striving to get these Corinthian believers to follow them, Paul reminds the people of the way he feels about them.

# Make room for us

This refers back to what Paul said in [2 Corinthians 6:11-13](../06/11.md) about them opening their hearts to him. AT: "Make room for us in your hearts" or "Love us and accept us" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metaphor]] and [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-explicit]])

# It is not to condemn you that I say this

"I do not say this to accuse you of having done wrong." The word "this" refers to what Paul just said about not having wronged anyone.

# you are in our hearts

Paul speaks of his and his associates' great love for the Corinthians as if they held them in their hearts. AT: "you are very dear to us" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metaphor]])

# for us to die together and to live together

This means that Paul and his associates will continue to love the Corinthians no matter what happens. AT: "whether we live or whether we die" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-idiom]])

# for us to die

"us" includes the Corinthian believers. (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-inclusive]])

# I am filled with comfort

This can be stated in active form. AT: "You fill me with comfort" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-activepassive]])

# I overflow with joy

Paul speaks of joy as if it is a liquid that fills him until he overflows. AT: "I am extremely joyful" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metaphor]])

# even in all our afflictions

"despite all our hardships"

# translationWords

* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/wrong]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/condemn]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/heart]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/death]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/life]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/confidence]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/proud]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/comfort]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/joy]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/afflict]]