# you cows of Bashan, you who are in the mountain of Samaria

Amos speaks to the women of Israel who live in Samaria as if they were well-fed cows. AT: "you wealthy women who live in the mountains of Samaria, you who are like the well-fed cows of Bashan" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metaphor]])

# you who oppress the poor

The phrase "the poor" refers to poor people. AT: "you who oppress poor people" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-nominaladj]])

# you who crush the needy

Hear "crush" is a metaphor that represents treating people badly. The phrase "the needy" refers to people who need help. AT: "you who treat needy people badly" or "you who hurt needy people" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metaphor]] and [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-nominaladj]])

# The Lord Yahweh has sworn by his holiness

This means that Yahweh promised that he would do something, and he assured people that he would do what he promised because he is holy.

# the days will come on you

The word "you" refers to the wealthy women of Israel who lived in Samaria, but also includes men.

# the days will come on you when they will take you away with hooks

A time in the future when bad things will happen to the people is spoken of as if those days will attack the people. The word "they" refers to their enemies. AT: "There will be a time when your enemies will take you away with hooks" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metaphor]])

# they will take you away with hooks, the last of you with fishhooks

These two phrases mean basically the same thing and emphasize that the enemy will capture the people like people catch fish. AT: "they will capture you as people capture animals, and they take you away" or "they will defeat you and cruelly force you to go away with them" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-parallelism]] and [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metaphor]])

# translationWords

* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/word]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/cow]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/names/bashan]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/names/samaria]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/oppress]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/lordyahweh]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/oath]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/holy]]