# Connecting Statement:

God continues to speak to the people of Israel.

# I gave you cleanness of teeth

Here having clean teeth represents having no food in the mouth to make the teeth dirty. AT: "I caused you to starve" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metonymy]])

# lack of bread

Giving them "lack of bread" represents causing them to lack bread, and "bread" represents food in general. AT: "I caused you not to have enough food" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metonymy]])

# you have not returned to me

Returning to God represents submitting again to him. AT: "you have not submitted again to me" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metaphor]])

# this is Yahweh's declaration

Yahweh speaks of himself by name to express the certainty of what he is declaring. See how you translated these words in [Amos 2:11](../02/11.md). AT: "this is what Yahweh has declared" or "this is what I, Yahweh, have declared" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-123person]])

# I also withheld rain from you

"I prevented the rain from falling on your crops"

# when there were still three months to the harvest

It can be stated clearly that the people needed the rain. AT: "when there were still three months to the harvest and your crops needed the rain" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-explicit]])

# One piece of land was rained on

This can be stated in active form. The phrase "One piece of land" represents any piece of land." AT: "It rained on one piece of land" or "It rained on some pieces of land" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-activepassive]])

# the piece of land where it did not rain

This refers to any piece of land where it did not rain. AT: "the pieces of land where it did not rain" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-genericnoun]])

# translationWords

* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/harvest]]