# I sent a plague on you as on Egypt

"I sent a plague on you as I did on Egypt" or "I sent a plague on you as I sent plagues on Egypt"

# I sent a plague on you

"I caused terrible things to happen to you"

# I killed your young men with the sword

Here "the sword" represents battle. God killed them by sending enemies to fight against them. AT: "I made your enemies kill your men in battle" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metonymy]])

# carried away your horses

God speaks of causing the enemies to steal their horses as if he carried the horses away. AT: "I made your enemies take away your horses" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metonymy]])

# made the stench of your camp come up to your nostrils

A stench is a bad smell. The stench coming up to their nostrils represents them smelling something terrible. It can be stated clearly that the smell was from the dead bodies of those who were killed. AT: "I made you smell the terrible odor of the dead bodies in your camp" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metonymy]] and [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-explicit]])

# You were like a burning stick snatched out of the fire

God speaks of those who survived the plague and war as if they were a burning stick that someone pulled out of a fire. AT: "Some of you survived, like a burning stick that someone pulls out of a fire" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metaphor]] and [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-activepassive]])

# you have not returned to me

Returning to God represents submitting again to him. See how you translated this in [Amos 4:6](./06.md). AT: "you have not submitted again to me" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metaphor]])

# this is Yahweh's declaration

Yahweh speaks of himself by name to express the certainty of what he is declaring. See how you translated these words in [Amos 2:11](../02/11.md). AT: "this is what Yahweh has declared" or "this is what I, Yahweh, have declared" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-123person]])

# translationWords

* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/plague]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/egypt]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/sword]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/horse]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/declare]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/sodom]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/gomorrah]]