# Connecting Statement:

God continues to speak to the people of Israel.

# prepare to meet your God

God says this to warn the people of Israel that he will judge them. AT: "prepare to meet me, your God" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-123person]] and [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-explicit]])

# he who forms the mountains ... reveals his thoughts ... is his name

It is not clear whether Amos is speaking about God, or God is speaking about himself. If God is speaking about himself, it can be translated with the words "I" and "me." AT: "I who form the mountains ... reveal my thoughts ... is my name" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-123person]])

# makes the morning darkness

Possible meanings are 1) God causes the day to be very dark with thick clouds. AT: "makes the morning dark" or 2) God causes time to pass, so every day becomes night. AT: "makes morning and evening"

# treads on the high places of the earth

God ruling over all the earth is spoken of as if he walks on the highest places of the earth. AT: "rules over all the earth" or "rules over even the highest places of the earth" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metaphor]])

# Yahweh, God of hosts, is his name

By declaring his full name, Yahweh is declaring his power and authority to do these things. Your language may have a way for people to do this.

# translationWords

* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/israel]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/god]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/reveal]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/highplaces]]