# he was high and elevated

The words "high" and "elevated" emphasize that the throne was very high and above everything around it. The height of the throne represents how great and powerful the Lord is. (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-doublet]])

# filled the temple

"filled the palace." The word used for temple here is often used to refer to the palace of kings.

# Above him were the seraphim

The word "seraphim" is the plural of seraph. This means the Lord was seated on the throne and the seraphim were standing or flying near the Lord ready to serve him.

# seraphim

This word suggests that the creatures might have a fiery appearance or resemble snakes. Because we do not know exactly what "seraphim" means, you could translate this as "winged creatures" or "winged living things." Or, you can borrow the word and use it in your language. (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/translate-unknown]] and [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/translate-transliterate]])

# each one had six wings

"each seraph had six wings" or "each creature had six wings"

# with two each covered his face, and with two he covered his feet, and with two he flew

The words "wings" and "seraph" are understood. AT: "with two wings each seraph covered his face, and with two wings he covered his feet, and with two wings he flew" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-ellipsis]])

# translationWords

* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/king]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/uzziah]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/lordgod]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/throne]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/robe]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/temple]]