# General Information:

In these verses, Nehemiah continues to list the names of the people who signed the sealed document.

# The Levites were

This refers to those who put their names on the sealed documents. AT: "The Levites who put their names on the sealed documents were" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-ellipsis]])

# Jeshua ... Henadad

These are the names of men. See how you translated this in [Nehemiah 3:18-19](../03/18.md). (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/translate-names]])

# Azaniah ... Rehob ... Beninu

These are the names of men. (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/translate-names]])

# Binnui

This is a man's name. See how you translated this in [Nehemiah 3:24](../03/22.md). (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/translate-names]])

# Kadmiel

This is a man's name. See how you translated this in [Nehemiah 7:43](../07/43.md). (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/translate-names]])

# Shebaniah

This is a man's name. See how you translated this in [Nehemiah 9:4](../09/03.md). (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/translate-names]])

# Hodiah ... Kelita ... Pelaiah ... Sherebiah

These are the names of men. See how you translated this in [Nehemiah 8:7](../08/06.md). (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/translate-names]])

# Hanan

This is a man's name. See how you translated this in [Nehemiah 7:49](../07/46.md). (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/translate-names]])

# Mika

This is a man's name. See how you translated this in [Nehemiah 10:11](./09.md). (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/translate-names]])

# Hashabiah ... Bani

These are the names of men. See how you translated this in [Nehemiah 3:17](../03/16.md). (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/translate-names]])

# Zaccur

This is a man's name. See how you translated this in [Nehemiah 3:2](../03/01.md). (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/translate-names]])

# The leaders of the people were

This refers to those who put their names on the sealed documents. AT: "The leaders of the people who put their names on the sealed documents were" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-ellipsis]])

# Parosh

This is a man's name. See how you translated this in [Nehemiah 3:25](../03/25.md). (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/translate-names]])

# Pahath-Moab

This is a man's name. See how you translated this in [Nehemiah 3:11](../03/11.md). (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/translate-names]])

# Elam ... Zattu

These are the names of men. See how you translated this in [Nehemiah 7:12](../07/11.md). (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/translate-names]])

# translationWords

* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/levite]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/peoplegroup]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/moab]]