# General Information:

Moses continues speaking to the people of Israel.

# When you have come to the land

The word "come to" can be translated as "gone to" or "entered." (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-go]])

# then you say, 'I will set a king over myself, like all the nations that are round about me,'

This has a quotation within a quotation. A direct quotation can be stated as an indirect quotation. AT: "then you decide that you want a king just like the peoples of the nations that surround you have kings," (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-quotesinquotes]] and [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-quotations]])

# I will set a king over myself ... round about me

Moses has the people speaking as if they were one person. It may be more natural to translate this with plural pronouns. AT: "We will set over ourselves ... round about us" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-pronouns]])

# set a king over myself

Giving someone the authority to rule as king in Israel is spoken of as if the people were setting the person in a place above them. (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metaphor]])

# all the nations that are round about me

"all the surrounding nations"

# all the nations

Here "nations" represent the people who live in the nations. (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metonymy]])

# someone from among your brothers

"one of your fellow Israelites"

# a foreigner, who is not your brother, over yourself

Both of these phrases mean the same thing. They both refer to a person who is not an Israelite. Yahweh is emphasizing that the people of Israel should not let a foreigner rule over them. AT: "a foreigner over yourself" or "a non-Israelite over yourself" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-doublet]])

# translationWords

* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/possess]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/life]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/king]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/nation]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/brother]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/foreigner]]