# General Information:

Often in prophecy events that will happen in future are described as happening now or in the past. This emphasizes that the event will certainly happen. (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-pastforfuture]])

# A declaration

"This is what Yahweh declares" or "This is a message from Yahweh"

# Ar ... Kir ... Dibon ... Nebo ... Medeba

These are names of cities and towns in Moab. (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/translate-names]])

# Ar of Moab is laid waste and destroyed

The words "laid waste" and "destroyed" mean the same thing and emphasize that the city was completely ruined. This can be stated in active form. AT: "Enemy armies will completely destroy Ar of Moab" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-doublet]] and [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-activepassive]])

# went up to the heights to weep

Here "up to the heights" refers to a temple or altar that was built on high ground like a hill or mountain side. AT: "went up to the temple on the hilltop to weep" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-idiom]])

# Moab laments over Nebo and over Medeba

These place names refer to the people who live there. AT: "the people of Moab will weep because of what happened to the cities of Nebo and Medeba" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metonymy]])

# All their heads are shaved bare and all their beards are cut off

They do this to show their extreme sadness. AT" "They will all shave their heads and cut off their beards and grieve" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/translate-symaction]])