# Connecting Statement:

This tells about a prophecy made about Paul in Caesarea by the prophet Agabus.

# General Information:

Here the words "we" and "us" refers to Luke, Paul, and those with them, but not to the reader. (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-exclusive]])

# a certain prophet named Agabus

This introduces a new person in the story. (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/writing-participants]])

# named Agabus

Agabus was a man from Judea. (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/translate-names]])

# took Paul's belt

"removed Paul's belt from Paul's waist"

# Thus says the Holy Spirit, 'So shall the Jews in Jerusalem tie up ... of the Gentiles.'

This is a quotation within a quotation. The inner quotation can be stated as an indirect quotation. AT: "'The Holy Spirit says that this will be how the Jews in Jerusalem will tie up ... of the Gentiles.' (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-quotesinquotes]] and [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-quotations]])

# the Jews

This does not mean all the Jews, but that these were the people who would do that. AT: "the Jewish leaders" or "some of the Jews" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-synecdoche]])

# hand him over

"deliver him"

# into the hands of the Gentiles

The word "hands" here represents control. AT: "into the legal custody of the Gentiles" or "to the Gentiles" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metonymy]])

# the Gentiles

This stands for the authorities among the Gentiles. AT: "the Gentile authorities" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-synecdoche]])

# translationWords

* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/biblicaltimeday]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/judea]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/prophet]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/paul]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/holyspirit]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/jew]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/jerusalem]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/hand]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/gentile]]