# General Information:

Here the word "we" refers to Luke and the other believers but does not include the reader. (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-exclusive]])

# What are you doing, weeping and breaking my heart

Paul asks this question to show the believers they should stop trying to persuade him. AT: "Stop what you are doing. Your weeping is breaking my heart" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-rquestion]])

# breaking my heart

To make someone sad or to discourage someone is spoken of as if it were a heart being broken. Here "heart" stands for a person's emotions. AT: "discouraging me" or "making me very sad" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metaphor]] and [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metonymy]])

# not only to be tied up

This can be stated in active form. AT: "not only for them to tie me up" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-activepassive]])

# for the name of the Lord Jesus

Here "name" refers to the person of Jesus. AT: "for the sake of the Lord Jesus" or "because I believe in the Lord Jesus" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metonymy]])

# did not wish to be persuaded

This can be stated in active form. AT: "did not want us to try to persuade him not to go to Jerusalem" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-activepassive]])

# May the will of the Lord be done

This can be stated in active form. AT: "May everything happen as the Lord has planned it" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-activepassive]])

# translationWords

* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/paul]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/jerusalem]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/death]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/name]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/lordgod]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/jesus]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/willofgod]]