# General Information:

Here the word "we" refers to James and the elders. (See: [Acts 21:18](./17.md) and [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-exclusive]])

# General Information:

The word "They" refers to the Jewish believers in Jerusalem who wanted to teach Jewish believers that they could still follow the laws of Moses. (See: [Acts 21:20-21](./20.md))

# General Information:

The words "them," "their," and the first "they" refer to the four men who made a vow. The second words "they" and "They" refer to the Jewish believers in Jerusalem who wanted to teach Jewish believers that they could still follow the laws of Moses.

# four men who made a vow

"four men who made a promise to God." This was the kind of vow where a person would not drink alcohol or cut his hair until the end of a set period of time.

# Take these men and purify yourself with them

They had to make themselves ritually pure so they could worship in the temple. (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-explicit]])

# pay their expenses for them

"pay for what they will need." The expenses would go toward buying a male and female lamb, a ram, and grain and drink offerings. (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-explicit]])

# they may shave their heads

This was a sign that the person had completed what they promised God they would do. (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/translate-symaction]])

# the things they have been told about you

This can be stated in active form. AT: "the things that people are saying about you" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-activepassive]])

# follow the law

This speaks of obeying the law as if the law were a leader and the people follow behind it. AT: "obey the law" or "live a life that conforms to the law of Moses and other Jewish customs" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metaphor]])