# Connecting Statement:

James and the elders in Jerusalem finish their request to Paul. (See: [Acts 21:18](./17.md))

# General Information:

Here the word "we" refers to James and the elders. (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-exclusive]])

# they should keep themselves from things sacrificed to idols, from blood, from what is strangled

All of these are rules about what they can eat. They are forbidden to eat meat of animals sacrificed to an idol, meat with blood still in it, and meat from a strangled animal because it would still have blood in the meat. See how you translated similar phrases in [Acts 15:20](../15/19.md). (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-explicit]])

# they should keep themselves from things sacrificed to idols

This can be stated in active form. AT: "they stay away from the meat of an animal that someone sacrificed to an idol" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-activepassive]])

# from what is strangled

This can be stated in active form. You can also state explicitly the assumed information about strangled animals. AT: "from animals that a person has strangled" or "from animals that a person killed for food but did not drain its blood" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-explicit]] and [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-activepassive]])

# took the men

These are the 4 men who made a vow.

# purifying himself with them

Before entering the temple area the Jews were required to be ceremonially or ritually clean. This cleansing had to do with Jews having contact with Gentiles.

# went into the temple

They did not go into the temple itself where only the high priest was allowed to enter. They entered the temple courtyard. AT: "went into the temple courtyard" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-synecdoche]])

# the days of purification

This is a separate purification process from the purification process which they were required to fulfill in order to enter the temple area.

# until the offering was offered

This can be stated in active form. AT: "until they presented the animals for an offering" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-activepassive]])

# translationWords

* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/gentile]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/believe]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/sacrifice]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/idol]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/blood]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/fornication]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/paul]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/purify]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/temple]]