# Connecting Statement:

This begins the story of Paul's arrest.

# General Information:

Verse 29 gives background information about the Jews from Asia.

# the seven days

These are the seven days for purification.

# in the temple

Paul was not in the temple itself. He was in the temple courtyard. AT: "in the temple courtyard" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-synecdoche]])

# stirred up the whole crowd

Inciting people to become very angry at Paul is spoken of as if they stirred up the crowd's emotions. AT: "caused a large number of people to be very angry at Paul" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metaphor]])

# laid hands on him

Here "laid hands on" means to "seize" or to "grab." See how you translated "laid hands on" in [Acts 5:18](../05/17.md). AT: "grabbed Paul" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-idiom]])

# the people, the law, and this place

"the people of Israel, the law of Moses, and the temple"

# Besides, he has also brought Greeks into the temple

Only Jewish males were allowed in certain areas of the courtyard of the Jerusalem temple. (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-explicit]])

# For they had previously ... into the temple

This is background information. Luke is explaining why the Jews from Asia thought Paul brought a Greek into the temple. (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/writing-background]])

# Trophimus

This was a Greek man that they accused Paul of having brought into the inner temple area that was only for Jews. See how you translated his name in [Acts 20:4](../20/04.md).

# translationWords

* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/jew]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/asia]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/paul]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/temple]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/israel]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/lawofmoses]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/greek]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/defile]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/holyplace]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/ephesus]]