# All the city was excited

The word "All" here is an exaggeration for emphasis. The word "city" represents the people in Jerusalem. AT: "Many people in the city became angry at Paul" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-hyperbole]] and [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metonymy]])

# laid hold of Paul

"seized Paul" or "grabbed Paul"

# the doors were immediately shut

They shut the doors so that there would not be rioting in the temple area. This can be stated in active form. AT: "Some of the Jews immediately shut the temple doors" or "The temple guards immediately shut the doors" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-explicit]] and [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-activepassive]])

# news came up to the chief captain of the guard

Here "news" refers to the messenger who went to speak the news. AT: "someone gave news to the chief captain of the guard" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metonymy]])

# news came up to the chief captain

The phrase "came up to" is used because the chief captain was in a fortress connected to the temple that was higher in elevation than the temple courtyard.

# the chief captain

a Roman military officer or leader of about 600 soldiers

# all Jerusalem was in an uproar

The word "Jerusalem" here represents the people of Jerusalem. The word "all" is an exaggeration to show a large crowd was upset. AT: "a lot of people in Jerusalem were in an uproar" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-hyperbole]] and [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metonymy]])

# translationWords

* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/names/paul]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/temple]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/chief]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/names/jerusalem]]