# As Paul was about to be brought

This can be stated in active form. AT: "As the soldiers were ready to bring Paul" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-activepassive]])

# the fortress

This fortress was connected to the outer temple court. See how you translated this in [Acts 21:34](./34.md).

# the chief captain

a Roman military officer of about 600 soldiers

# Do you speak Greek? Are you not then the Egyptian, who previously led a rebellion and led the four thousand men of the 'Assassins' out into the wilderness?

The chief captain uses these questions to express surprise that Paul is not who he thought he was. AT: "So you speak Greek. I thought you were that Egyptian who led a rebellion in the wilderness with the four thousand terrorists" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-rquestion]])

# Are you not then the Egyptian

Shortly before Paul's visit, an unnamed man from Egypt had launched a revolt against Rome in Jerusalem. Later he escaped into the wilderness and the commander wonders if Paul might be the same man. (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-explicit]])

# led a rebellion

This word "rebellion" can be stated as a verb. AT: "caused people to rebel against the Roman government" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-abstractnouns]])

# the four thousand men

"the 4,000 terrorists" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/translate-numbers]])

# Assassins

This refers to a group of Jewish rebels who killed Romans and anyone who supported Romans.

# translationWords

* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/names/paul]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/stronghold]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/names/greek]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/names/egypt]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/rebel]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/desert]]