# Connecting Statement:

Yahweh continues to challenge Job.

# General Information:

The word "its" refers to the earth.

# General Information:

Yahweh uses more questions to emphasize that his greatness. (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-rquestion]])

# On what were its foundations laid?

This can be translated as a statement. AT: "Tell me on what its foundations were laid." (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-rquestion]])

# On what were its foundations laid

This can be stated in active form. "On what did I set its foundations" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-activepassive]])

# Who laid its cornerstone when ... the sons of God shouted for joy?

This can be translated as a statement. AT: "Tell me who laid its cornerstone when ... the sons of God shouted for joy." (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-rquestion]])

# when the morning stars sang together and all the sons of God shouted for joy

These two lines are similar in meaning. (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-parallelism]])

# when the morning stars sang together

The morning stars are spoken of as singing like people sing. Possible meanings are: 1) the "morning stars" are the same as the "sons of God" in the next line or 2) "the morning stars" refer to stars in the sky. (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-personification]])

# the morning stars

"the bright stars that shine in the morning"

# sons of God

This refers to angels, heavenly beings. See how you translated this in [Job 1:6](../01/06.md).

# shouted for joy

The abstract noun "joy" can be translated as the adverb "joyfully." AT: "shouted joyfully" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-abstractnouns]])

# for joy

"because they were full of joy"

# translationWords

* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/foundation]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/cornerstone]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/sonsofgod]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/joy]]