# Connecting Statement:

Yahweh continues to challenge Job.

# General Information:

Yahweh uses five questions to emphasize that he understands the earth and seas and Job does not. (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-rquestion]])

# General Information:

Verses 16 and 17 each have two phrases that are similar in meaning. (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-parallelism]])

# Have you gone ... in its expanse?

These questions expect negative answers. They can be expressed as statements. AT: "You have not gone to the sources of the waters of the sea, or walked in the lowest parts of the deep. The gates of death have not been revealed to you, and you have not seen the gates of the shadow of death. You do not understand the earth in its expanse." (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-rquestion]])

# the sources of the waters

"the springs"

# the deep

This refers to the sea or ocean where the water is very deep. AT: "the deep sea" or "the ocean depths" or "the deep water" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-nominaladj]])

# Have the gates of death been revealed to you

Death is spoken of as if it were a city that had gates through which people enter into it. This can be expressed in active form. AT: "Has anyone shown the gates of death to you" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metaphor]] and [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-activepassive]])

# the shadow of death

See how you translated this in [Job 3:5](../03/04.md).

# the earth in its expanse

"the great broad places of the earth"

# if you know it all

"if you know all about these things"

# translationWords

* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/gate]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/death]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/shadow]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/earth]]