# Connecting Statement:

Yahweh continues to challenge Job.

# General Information:

Yahweh uses three questions to emphasize that he understands light and darkness and Job does not. (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-rquestion]])

# General Information:

Each of these verses have two parallel phrases. (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-parallelism]])

# Where is the way to the resting place of light—as for darkness, where is its place?

This question can be expressed as a statement. AT: "You do not know the way to the resting place of light or the place of darkness." (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-rquestion]])

# the resting place of light

"the dwelling of light." Light is spoken of as having a resting place from which it comes forth each day. (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-personification]])

# light

"daylight" or "sunlight"

# Can you lead light and darkness to their places of work? Can you find the way back to their houses for them?

These questions expect a negative answer. They can be expressed as statements. AT: "You cannot lead light and darkness to their places of work, or find the way back to their houses for them." (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-rquestion]])

# to their places of work

"to their territory." Light and darkness are spoken of as being led out and back each day to accomplish Yahweh's purposes. (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-personification]])

# Undoubtedly ... so large

Yahweh uses mocking irony to emphasize that Job does not understand light and darkness. AT: "It is obvious that you do not know, because you were not born when I created them, and you are not very old" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-irony]])

# for you were born then

"for you were already living then." The word "then" refers to the time when light was created and separated from darkness. AT: "for you were already born when I created them"

# the number of your days is so large

"you have lived so many years"