# Connecting Statement:

Yahweh continues to challenge Job.

# General Information:

Yahweh uses four questions to emphasize to Job that he makes rain, dew, ice, and frost and Job does not. (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-rquestion]])

# General Information:

Each of the two lines in these three verses mean similar things. (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-parallelism]])

# General Information:

Rain, dew, ice, and frost are spoken of as though they could be born like people are. (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-personification]])

# Does the rain have a father, or, who fathers the drops of dew? Out of whose womb did the ice come? Who bore the white frost out of the sky?

These can be translated as statements. AT: "Tell me whether the rain has a father, and who has engendered the raindrops. Tell me out of whose womb the ice came, and who bore the white frost out of the sky." (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-rquestion]])

# fathers the drops of dew

Becoming the father of the dew is a metaphor for creating it. AT: "causes the drops of dew to exist" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metaphor]])

# ice

"frozen water"

# bore

"gave birth to"

# the white frost

dew that freezes on the ground on cold, clear nights

# The waters hide themselves and become like stone

The waters are spoken of as being able to hide. During the winter the ice hides the water underneath it. (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-personification]] and [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-rpronouns]])

# become like stone

The hardness of ice is spoken of as if it was stone. AT: "become hard like stone" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-simile]])

# the deep

This refers to the sea or ocean where the water is very deep. AT: "the deep sea" or "the ocean depths" or "the deep water" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-nominaladj]])

# translationWords

* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/womb]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/heaven]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/water]]