# General Information:

Yahweh responds to Habakkuk.

# be amazed and astonished

The words "amazed" and "astonished" share similar meanings. Together they emphasize the strength of the emotion. AT: "be very amazed" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-doublet]])

# in your days

This idiom refers to Habakkuk's lifetime. AT: "during your lifetime" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-idiom]])

# when it is reported to you

This can be stated in active form. AT: "when someone reports it to you" or "when you hear about it" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-activepassive]])

# look!

The word "look!" here alerts us to pay attention to the surprising information that follows.

# I am about to raise up the Chaldeans

Yahweh speaks of making the Chaldeans powerful as if he were raising them up. AT: "I am about to make the Chaldeans very powerful" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metaphor]])

# impetuous

Possible meanings are 1) "violent" or 2) "hasty."

# the breadth of the land

This can mean 1) everywhere in Judah or 2) everywhere in the world. This would be an exaggeration to emphasize how powerful the Chaldean army is. (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-hyperbole]])

# They are terrifying and fearsome

The words "terrifying" and "fearsome" share similar meanings. Together they emphasize the fear that the Chaldeans instilled in other people. AT: "They cause others to be greatly terrified" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-doublet]])

# their judgment and splendor proceed from themselves

The word "splendor" represents their pride in how they view themselves. Yahweh speaks of their opinion of themselves as if the qualities of judgment and splendor came from them. AT: "because they are prideful, they decide for themselves what judgment looks like" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metaphor]] and [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metonymy]])

# translationWords

* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/nation]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/believe]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/names/chaldeans]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/judge]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/splendor]]