# General Information:

Habakkuk continues speaking to Yahweh about the Chaldeans.

# He brings ... he continually slaughter

In 1:15-17 the singular pronoun "he" and "his" refer to a Babylonian solider who represents all of the Babylonian soldiers. These pronouns can be stated as plural. AT: "They bring ... they continually slaughter" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-123person]] and [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-synecdoche]])

# all of them ... drags men away ... gathers them

Here "them" and "men" refer to people in general. This can be stated in first person to include Habakkuk as one of the people. AT: "all of us ... drags us away ... gathers us" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-123person]])

# He brings all of them up with a fishhook ... in his dragnet

Habakkuk speaks of the Chaldeans conquering people easily as if the people were fish that the Chaldeans catch with fishhooks and fishnets. (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metaphor]])

# fishhook ... fishnet ... dragnet

tools used to catch fish

# he sacrifices to his net and burns incense to his dragnet

Habakkuk speaks of the weapons that the Chaldeans use to conquer people and nations as if the weapons were fishing nets that they use to catch fish. AT: "they offer sacrifices and burn incense to the weapons that they use in battle" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metaphor]])

# Will he therefore keep emptying his net, and will he continually slaughter the nations without mercy?

Habakkuk asks this question because he is frustrated and wants to know how long Yahweh will allow the Chaldeans to continue to destroy people and nations. AT: "Will you therefore let them empty their fishing nets and continue to slaughter the nations while they feel no compassion?" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-explicit]])

# keep emptying his net

Habakkuk speaks of the Chaldeans preparing to conquer more nations as if they were fishermen who empty their nets so that they can use them to catch more fish. (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metaphor]])

# translationWords

* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/rejoice]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/sacrifice]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/incense]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/nation]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/compassion]]