# See

This word alerts us to pay attention to the surprising information that follows.

# days are coming

A future time is spoken of as if it were an object coming toward the speaker or the hearers. AT: "the time will happen" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-idiom]])

# this is Yahweh's declaration

Yahweh speaks of himself by name to express the certainty of what he is declaring. See how you translated this in [Jeremiah 1:8](../01/07.md). AT: "this is what Yahweh has declared" or "this is what I, Yahweh, have declared" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-123person]])

# I will raise up

This idiom means he will appoint a successor. (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-idiom]])

# a righteous branch

This future king descended from David is spoken of as if he were a branch grown on a tree. AT: "a righteous descendant" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metaphor]])

# a righteous branch

Some modern versions translate this as "a legitimate successor to the throne."

# cause justice and righteousness in the land

The abstract nouns "justice" and "righteousness" can be stated as actions. AT: "cause people to act justly and rightly" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-abstractnouns]])

# in the land

Here "land" refers to the people who live in the land. AT: "for all the people in the nation" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metonymy]])

# Judah will be rescued

Here "Judah" refers to the people of Judah. AT: "the people of Judah will be rescued" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metonymy]])

# Judah will be rescued

This can be stated in active form. AT: "He will rescue Judah from their enemies" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-activepassive]] and [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-explicit]])

# Israel will live in security

Here "Israel" refers to the people of Israel. AT: "the people of Israel will live in security" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metonymy]])

# he will be called

this refers to the king

# Yahweh is our righteousness

The abstract noun "righteousness" can be stated as an action. AT: "Yahweh, the one who does what is right for us" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-abstractnouns]])

# translationWords

* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/raise]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/david]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/righteous]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/reign]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/king]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/justice]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/kingdomofjudah]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/life]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/name]]