# General Information:

These verses are very similar to [Jeremiah 16:14-15](../16/14.md), although not exactly the same. Compare how you translated those verses.

# see

The word "see" here alerts the reader to pay attention to the important information that follows.

# days are coming

A future time is spoken of as if it were an object coming toward the speaker or the hearers. AT: "the time will happen" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-idiom]])

# this is Yahweh's declaration

Yahweh speaks of himself by name to express the certainty of what he is declaring. See how you translated this in [Jeremiah 1:8](../01/07.md). AT: "this is what Yahweh has declared" or "this is what I, Yahweh, have declared" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-123person]])

# As Yahweh lives

"as surely as Yahweh is alive." The people use this expression to show that what they say next is certainly true. This is a way of making a solemn promise. See how you translated this in [Jeremiah 4:2](../04/01.md). AT: "I solemnly swear" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-idiom]])

# who brought up and who led back

These two phrases mean the same thing and can be combined. AT: "who brought back" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-doublet]])

# the house of Israel

The word "house" is a metonym for the family that lives in the house. In this case it refers to the kingdom of Israel. See how you translated this in [Jeremiah 3:18](../03/17.md). AT: "Israel" or "the kingdom of Israel" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metonymy]])

# the northern land and all the lands where they had been driven

This refers to the way the northern ten tribes of Israel were captured and spread out among the surrounding countries.

# Then they will live in their own land

This refers to Israel, from where they were scattered. This can be stated explicitly. AT: "Then they will live in their own land again" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-explicit]])