# General Information:

In verses 9-32 Jeremiah delivers Yahweh's message to the false prophets and the priests. Jeremiah is speaking in verse 9, but it is not clear if verse 10 are the words of Jeremiah or of Yahweh.

# Regarding the prophets, my heart is broken in me, and all of my bones tremble

The prophet speaks of his heart being broken and his bones trembling because he is afraid of the judgment that will result from the lies of the false prophets. AT: "I have great fear for what will happen because of the false prophets" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metonymy]])

# my heart is broken in me

This idiom refers to deep sadness. AT: "I am very sad" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-idiom]])

# all of my bones tremble

Here trembling is associated with fear. AT: "I am very afraid" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metonymy]])

# I have become like a drunk man, like a man whom wine has overpowered

People who are drunk are not able to control themselves. Likewise, Jeremiah has lost control of himself out of fear of Yahweh's punishment. AT: "I am like a drunk man; I cannot control myself" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-simile]])

# the land is full of adulterers

The land is spoken of as if it were a container and the adulterers were objects that filled the container completely. That is, everyone in the land is an adulterer, which in turn is an exaggeration for very many people being adulterers. (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-hyperbole]])

# adulterers

This word here probably has two senses. It has the literal meaning that the men in the nation had committed adultery against their own wives, and it also has the figurative meaning that they had abandoned Yahweh in order to worship idols. (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metaphor]])

# the land is dried up

Some modern versions interpret this Hebrew phrase as "the land mourns."

# These prophets' paths are wicked

The wicked actions of the false prophets are spoken of as if they were walking on an evil path. AT: "These prophets are doing things that are wicked" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metaphor]])

# translationWords

* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/prophet]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/heart]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/drunk]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/wine]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/holy]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/word]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/adultery]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/mourn]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/desert]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/power]]