# Connecting Statement:

Jeremiah continues to deliver Yahweh's message about the false prophets and priests that he began in [Jeremiah 23:9](./09.md).

# Yahweh of hosts says this

Jeremiah often uses these words to introduce an important message from Yahweh. See how you translated this in [Jeremiah 6:6](../06/06.md).

# They have deluded you!

"The prophets have caused you to believe something that is not true!"

# visions from their own minds

Here "minds" refers to the thoughts of the false prophets. AT: "visions that they imagined" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metonymy]])

# not from Yahweh's mouth

Here "mouth" refers to what Yahweh said. AT: "not what Yahweh said" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metonymy]])

# They are constantly saying

The word "constantly" is an exaggeration to emphasize that this is what they normally say. (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-hyperbole]])

# everyone walking in the stubbornness of his own heart says

Here "heart" refers to their desires. To follow those desires is spoken of as walking in them. AT: "everyone stubbornly does whatever they desire to do" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metaphor]] and [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metonymy]])

# Disaster will not come upon you

"Nothing bad will happen to you"

# Yet who has stood in Yahweh's council meeting? Who sees and hears his word? Who pays attention to his word and listens?

These questions are used to rebuke the priests and false prophets for not obeying Yahweh. AT: "No one advises Yahweh. No one understands what Yahweh says. No one obeys Yahweh's commands." (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-rquestion]])

# pays attention to his word and listens

These two phrases mean the same thing. They can be combined in one phrase. AT: "obeys his word at all"

# translationWords

* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/word]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/prophet]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/vision]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/mind]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/declare]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/peace]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/walk]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/stiffnecked]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/heart]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/council]]