# Connecting Statement:

Yahweh continues to deliver his message about the false prophets and priests that he began in [Jeremiah 23:9](./09.md) and completes in [Jeremiah 23:40](./37.md).

# prophesying deceit

The word "deceit" can be expressed as an adjective or an adverb. AT: "prophesying deceit things" or "prophesying deceitfully" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-abstractnouns]])

# in my name

This phrase refers to speaking with Yahweh's power and authority or as his representative. See how you translated this phrase in [Jeremiah 14:14](../14/13.md). (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metonymy]])

# I had a dream!

They meant that this dream was from God. This can be made explicit. AT: "I had a dream from Yahweh" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-explicit]])

# How long will this go on, prophets who prophesy lies from their minds, and who prophesy from the deceit in their hearts?

Yahweh asks this question to emphasize that this is something that should not continue. AT: "This should not continue, prophets declaring lies which they themselves have made up." (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-rquestion]])

# prophesy lies from their minds ... prophesy from the deceit in their hearts

These two phrases mean the same thing and emphasize that the false prophets made up their prophesies. AT: "prophesy things that come only from their own minds" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-doublet]])

# forget my name ... forgot my name

Here the word "name" refers to the whole being of Yahweh. AT: "forget me ... forgot me" or "forget who I am ... forgot who I am" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metonymy]])

# in favor of Baal's name

Here "Baal's name" refers to the god Baal. AT: "leading my people to worship Baal instead of me" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metonymy]])

# translationWords

* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/deceive]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/name]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/dream]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/mind]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/heart]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/report]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/neighbor]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/favor]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/names/baal]]