# Connecting Statement:

Yahweh continues to deliver his message about the false prophets and priests that he began in [Jeremiah 23:9](./09.md) and completes in [Jeremiah 23:40](./37.md).

# General Information:

In verses 33-40 there is a wordplay with the word "burden." Sometimes it means "a message" and other times it means "a heavy load to carry." This wordplay should be retained if possible.

# asks you ... you will say

These two instances of "you" are singular and refer to Jeremiah. (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-you]])

# What is the burden of Yahweh?

Here "burden" means a message or prophecy from Yahweh.

# You are the burden ... cast you off

These two instances of "you" are plural and refer to the false prophets and the priests. (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-you]])

# You are the burden

Here "burden" means a heavy load. This is a metaphor that means they annoy Yahweh and he no longer wants to put up with them. AT: "You are a burden that I am tired of carrying" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metaphor]])

# this is Yahweh's declaration

Yahweh speaks of himself by name to express the certainty of what he is declaring. See how you translated this in [Jeremiah 1:8](../01/07.md). AT: "this is what Yahweh has declared" or "this is what I, Yahweh, have declared" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-123person]])

# This is the burden of Yahweh

Here "burden" means a message or prophecy from Yahweh.

# his house

Here "house" is a metonym for the family that lives inside it. AT: "his family" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metonymy]])