# Connecting Statement:

Yahweh completes his message about the false prophets and priests that he began in [Jeremiah 23:9](./09.md).

# General Information:

In verses 33-40 there is a wordplay with the word "burden." Sometimes it means "a message" and other times it means "a heavy load to carry." This wordplay should be retained if possible.

# This is what you will say

Here "you" is singular and refers to Jeremiah. (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-you]])

# But if you say ... Because you have said ... when I sent to you ... You will not say ... pick you up ... throw you ... I gave you ... insult on you

All of these instance of "you" are plural and refer to the priests and false prophets. (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-you]])

# therefore, behold

"therefore, pay attention." This alerts the reader to pay special attention to what follows.

# I am about to pick you up and throw you away from me

Yahweh speaks of sending these priests and false prophets into exile as if they were an object that he was going to throw far away. AT: "I am about to drive you away from me" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metaphor]])

# the city that I gave you

This refers to Jerusalem.

# I will put everlasting shame and insult on you that will not be forgotten

"I will cover you with shame that will last forever and insult that you will never forget" or "I will cause people to make fun of you forever. People will never forget that you were disgraced." Yahweh speaks of the humiliation of the priests and false prophets as if he would put shame and insult on them like clothing.

# that will not be forgotten

This can be stated in active form. AT: "that will last forever" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-activepassive]])

# translationWords

* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/report]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/send]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/command]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/eternity]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/shame]]