# the one who was seated on the throne, the one who lives forever and ever

This is one person. The one who was seated on the throne lives forever and ever.

# forever and ever

These two words mean about the same thing and are repeated for emphasis. AT: "for all eternity" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-doublet]])

# twenty-four elders

"24 elders." See how you translated this in [Revelation 4:4](./04.md). (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/translate-numbers]])

# prostrated themselves

They lay down facing the ground.

# They lay their crowns before the throne

These crowns looked like wreaths of olive branches or laurel leaves, hammered out in gold. The elders were respectfully placing the crowns on the ground, showing that they were submitting to God's authority to rule. AT: "they lay their crowns before the throne to show that they were submitting to him" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/translate-symaction]])

# lay

Possible meanings are 1) to place or 2) to throw down forcibly, as of something worthless ("throw," [Revelation 2:22](../02/22.md)). The reader should understand that the elders are acting respectfully.

# our Lord and our God

"our Lord and God." This is one person, the one who was sitting on the throne.

# to receive glory and honor and power

These are things that God always has. Being praised for having them is spoken of as receiving them. AT: "to be praised for your glory, honor, and power" or "for everyone to praise you because you are glorious, honorable, and powerful" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metonymy]])

# translationWords

* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/life]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/creature]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/glory]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/honor]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/throne]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/eternity]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/elder]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/bow]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/crown]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/worthy]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/lord]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/god]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/power]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/creation]]