# General Information:

Peter identifies himself as the writer and identifies and greets the believers he is writing to.

# slave and apostle of Jesus Christ

Peter speaks of being Jesus Christ's servant. He also was given the position and authority of being Christ's apostle.

# to those who have received the same precious faith

That these people have received faith implies that God has given that faith to them. AT: "to those to whom God has given the same precious faith" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-explicit]])

# to those who have received

"to you who have received." Peter addresses all believers who may read this letter.

# we have received

Here the word "we" refers to Peter and the other apostles, but not to those to whom he is writing. AT: "we apostles have received" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-exclusive]])

# May grace and peace increase in measure

God is the one who will give grace and peace to believers. AT: "May God increase your grace and your peace" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-explicit]])

# May grace and peace increase

Peter speaks of peace as if it were an object that could increase in size or numbers. (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metaphor]])

# in the knowledge of God and of Jesus our Lord

You can translate "knowledge" using a verbal phrase. AT: "through your knowing God and Jesus our Lord" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-abstractnouns]])

# translationWords

* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/names/peter]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/servant]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/apostle]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/jesus]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/precious]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/faith]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/righteous]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/god]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/savior]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/grace]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/peace]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/know]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/lordgod]]