# Connecting Statement:

Peter continues to explain his teachings to the believers and explains why they are trustworthy.

# For we did not follow cleverly invented myths

Here the word "we" refers to Peter and the other apostles, but not to his readers. AT: "For we apostles did not follow cleverly made-up stories" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-exclusive]])

# the power and the coming

These two phrases may refer to the same thing and be translated as a single phrase. AT: "the powerful coming" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-hendiadys]])

# the coming of our Lord Jesus Christ

Possible meanings are 1) the future second coming of the Lord Jesus or 2) the first coming of the the Lord Jesus.

# our Lord Jesus Christ

Here the word "our" refers to all believers. (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-inclusive]])

# when a voice was brought to him by the Majestic Glory

This can be stated in active form. AT: "when he heard a voice come from the Majestic Glory" or "when he heard the voice of the Majestic Glory speak to him" or "when the Majestic Glory spoke to him" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-activepassive]])

# the Majestic Glory

Peter refers to God in terms of his glory. This is a euphemism that avoids using God's name, out of reverence for him. AT: "God, the Supreme Glory," (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metonymy]] and [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-euphemism]])

# We ourselves heard this voice brought from heaven

With the word "We," Peter is referring to himself and to the disciples James and John, who heard the voice of God. AT: "We ourselves heard this voice that came from heaven" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-exclusive]])

# heard this voice brought from heaven

"heard the voice of the one who spoke from heaven"

# we were with him

"we were with Jesus"

# translationWords

* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/power]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/lordgod]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/jesus]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/witness]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/majesty]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/godthefather]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/honor]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/glory]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/sonofgod]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/beloved]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/heaven]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/holy]]