# General Information:

Peter begins to warn the believers about false teachers.

# For we have this prophetic word made more sure

The things that Peter and the other apostles saw, which he described in the previous verses, confirm what the prophets spoke. This can be stated in active form. AT: "For the things that we saw make this prophetic word more sure" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-explicit]] and [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-activepassive]])

# For we have

Here the word "we" refers to all believers, including Peter and his readers. (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-inclusive]])

# this prophetic word

This refers to the Old Testament. AT: "the scriptures, which the prophets spoke," (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-explicit]]) (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-synecdoche]])

# you do well to pay attention to it

Peter instructs the believers to pay close attention to the prophetic message.

# as to a lamp shining in a dark place, until the day dawns

Peter compares the prophetic word to a lamp that gives light in the dark until light comes in the morning. The coming of morning is a reference to Christ's coming. (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-simile]])

# the morning star rises in your hearts

"Hearts" here is a metonym for "thoughts and intentions." Peter speaks of Christ as the "morning star," which indicates that daybreak and the end of darkness is near. Christ will bring light into the hearts of believers, ending all doubt and bringing full understanding of who he is. AT: "the morning star becomes supremely important in your thinking and the way you act" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metaphor]] and [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metonymy]])

# the morning star

The "morning star" refers to the planet Venus, which sometimes rises just before the sun and indicates that daybreak is near.

# Above all, you must understand

"Most importantly, you must understand"

# no prophecy comes from someone's own interpretation

Possible meanings are 1) the prophets did not make their prophecies on their own or 2) people must rely on the Holy Spirit to understand the prophecies or 3) people must interpret the prophecies with the help of the entire Christian community of believers.

# men spoke from God when they were carried along by the Holy Spirit

Peter speaks of the Holy Spirit helping the prophets to write what God wanted them to write as if the Holy Spirit was carrying them from one place to another. AT: "men spoke from God as the Holy Spirit directed them" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metaphor]])

# translationWords

* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/prophet]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/lamp]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/holyspirit]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/god]]