# General Information:

In this chapter, Nebuchadnezzar tells what God did to him. In verses 1-18, Nebuchadnezzar describes in the first person his vision from God. Verses 19-33 switch to the third person to describe the punishment of Nebuchadnezzar. Verses 34-37 change back to first person as Nebuchadnezzar describes his response to God. (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-123person]])

# King Nebuchadnezzar sent

This phrase is referring to the king's messenger as the king himself. AT: "Nebuchadnezzar sent his messengers with" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metonymy]])

# peoples, nations, and languages

Here "nations" and "languages" represent people from different nations who speak different languages. See how you translated this in [Daniel 3:4](../03/03.md). AT: "people from different nations and who speak different languages" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metonymy]])

# who lived on the earth

Kings would often exaggerate how wide their kingdom was. Nebuchadnezzar did rule over most of the known world at the time this book was written. AT: "who lived in the kingdom of Babylon" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-hyperbole]])

# May your peace increase

This is a common greeting.

# signs and wonders

These words share similar meanings and refer to the amazing things that God had done. (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-doublet]])

# How great are his signs, and how mighty are his wonders!

Both of these phrases have the same meaning and are used to emphasize how great God's signs and wonders are. (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-parallelism]])

# His kingdom is ... generation to generation

Both of these phrases have the same meaning and are repeated to emphasize how God's reign is forever. (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-parallelism]])

# translationWords

* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/king]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/names/nebuchadnezzar]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/decree]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/peoplegroup]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/nation]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/peace]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/miracle]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/mosthigh]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/mighty]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/kingdom]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/eternity]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/dominion]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/generation]]