# General Information:

In verses 34-37 Nebuchadnezzar speaks in the first person to describe his response to God. (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-123person]])

# my sanity returned to me

Here his sanity is spoken of as if it was able to return by its own power. AT: "I became sane again" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-personification]])

# my majesty and splendor returned to me

Here his majesty and splendor are spoken of as if they were able to return by their own power. AT: "I regained my majesty and my splendor again" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-personification]])

# majesty and splendor

These words mean basically the same thing and emphasize the greatness of his glory. (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-doublet]])

# my noblemen sought my favor

"my noblemen requested my help again"

# I was brought ... greatness was given to me

Here "throne" refers to his authority to rule. This can be stated in active form. AT: "I returned to rule my kingdom again, and I received even more greatness" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metonymy]] and [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-activepassive]])

# praise, extol, and honor

All three of these words have basically the same meaning and emphasize how greatly he praised God. (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-doublet]])

# who walk in their own pride

This phrase uses "walk" to refer to the person who acts proud. AT: "who are proud" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-idiom]])

# translationWords

* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/majesty]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/splendor]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/glory]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/kingdom]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/counselor]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/noble]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/favor]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/throne]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/nebuchadnezzar]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/praise]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/honor]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/king]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/heaven]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/works]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/justice]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/humble]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/proud]]