# Connecting Statement:

Paul gives Timothy instructions on how to live for Christ, how to suffer for Christ, and how to teach others to live for Christ.

# from David's seed

This is a metaphor that means Jesus descended from David. AT: "who is a descendant of David" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metaphor]])

# who was raised from the dead

Here to raise up is an idiom for causing someone who has died to become alive again. This can be stated in active form. AT: "whom God caused to live again" or "whom God raised from the dead" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-activepassive]] and [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-idiom]])

# according to my gospel message

Paul speaks of the gospel message as if it were especially his. He means that this is the gospel message that he proclaims. AT: "according to the gospel message that I preach" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metonymy]])

# to the point of being bound with chains as a criminal

Here "being chained" represents being a prisoner. This can be stated in active form. AT: "to the point of wearing chains as a criminal in prison" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metonymy]] and [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-activepassive]])

# the word of God is not bound

Here "chained" represents being a prisoner. Here this is a metaphor that means no one can stop God's message. "Word of God" here is a metonym for the message from God. AT: "God's message cannot be stopped" or "no one can put the word of God in prison" or "no one can stop the word of God" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metonymy]] and [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metaphor]])

# for those who are chosen

This can be stated in active form. AT: "for the people whom God has chosen" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-activepassive]])

# may obtain the salvation that is in Christ Jesus

Paul speaks of salvation as if it were an object that could be physically grasped. AT: "will receive salvation from Christ Jesus" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metaphor]])

# with eternal glory

"and that they will be forever with him in the glorious place where he is"

# translationWords

* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/jesus]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/names/david]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/seed]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/raise]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/death]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/goodnews]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/suffer]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/criminal]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/wordofgod]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/endure]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/elect]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/save]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/inchrist]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/eternity]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/glory]]