# General Information:

Just as precious and common containers can be used for honorable ways in a wealthy house, any person who turns to God can be used by God in honorable ways in doing good works. (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metaphor]])

# the firm foundation of God stands

Possible meanings are 1) "God's truth is like a firm foundation" or 2) "God has established his people like a building on a firm foundation" or 3) "God's faithfulness is like a firm foundation." In any case, Paul speaks of this idea as if it were a building's foundation laid in the ground. (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metaphor]])

# who names the name of the Lord

"who calls on the name of the Lord." Here "name of the Lord" refers to the Lord himself. AT: "who calls on the Lord" or "who says he is a believer in Christ" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metonymy]])

# depart from unrighteousness

Paul speaks of unrighteousness as if it were a place from which one could leave. AT: "stop being evil" or "stop doing wrong things" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metaphor]])

# containers of gold and silver ... containers of wood and clay

Here "containers" is a general word for bowls, plates, and pots, which people put food or drink into or on. If your language does not have a general word, use the word for "bowls" or "pots." Paul is using this as a metaphor to describe different types of people. (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metaphor]])

# honorable use ... dishonorable

Possible meanings are 1) "special occasions ... ordinary times" or 2) "the kinds of activities people do in public ... the kinds of activities people do in private."

# cleans himself from dishonorable use

Possible meanings are 1) "separates himself from dishonorable people" or 2) "makes himself pure." In any case, Paul speaks of this process as if it were a person washing himself. (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metaphor]])

# he is an honorable container

Paul speaks about this person as if he were an honorable container. AT: "he is like the container that is useful for special occasions" or "he is like the container that is useful for activities good people do in public" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metaphor]])

# He is set apart, useful to the Master, and prepared for every good work

This can be stated in active form. AT: "The Master sets him apart, and he is ready for the Master to use him for every good work" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-activepassive]])

# He is set apart

He is not set apart physically or in the sense of location, but instead to fulfill a purpose. Some versions translate this "sanctified," but the text signals the essential idea of being set apart. (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metaphor]])

# translationWords

* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/foundation]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/god]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/lordgod]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/name]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/unrighteous]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/gold]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/silver]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/honor]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/dishonor]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/setapart]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/lord]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/good]]