# Flee youthful lusts

Paul speaks about youthful lusts as if they are a dangerous person or animal that Timothy should run away from. AT: "Completely avoid youthful lusts" or "Absolutely refuse to do the wrong things that young people strongly desire to do" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metaphor]])

# Pursue righteousness

Here "Pursue" means the opposite of "Flee." Paul speaks of righteousness as if it is an object that Timothy should run towards because it will do him good. AT: "Try your best to obtain righteousness" or "Seek after righteousness" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metaphor]])

# with those

Possible meanings are 1) Paul wants Timothy to join with other believers in pursuing righteousness, faith, love, and peace, or 2) Paul wants Timothy to be at peace and not argue with other believers.

# those who call on the Lord

Here "call on the Lord" is an idiom that means to trust and worship the Lord. AT: "those who worship the Lord" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-idiom]])

# out of a clean heart

Paul speaks of someone's reason for calling on God as if it were in physical motion, emerging from his heart. AT: "with sincere motives" or "for good reasons" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metaphor]])

# a clean heart

Paul speaks of good reasons for doing something as if they came from a heart that was physically clean. (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metaphor]])

# refuse foolish and ignorant questions

"refuse to answer foolish and ignorant questions." Paul means that the people who ask such questions are foolish and ignorant. AT: "refuse to answer the questions that foolish people who do not want to know the truth ask" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metonymy]])

# they give birth to arguments

Paul speaks of ignorant questions as if they were women giving birth to children. AT: "they cause arguments" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metaphor]])