# you, brothers

Here "brothers" means fellow Christians.

# are not in darkness

Paul speaks of evil and ignorance about God as if they were darkness. AT: "you are not unknowing, like people who live in the dark" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metaphor]])

# so that the day would overtake you like a thief

The day when the Lord comes should not be a surprise to believers. (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-simile]])

# For you are all sons of the light and sons of the day

Paul speaks of the truth as if it were light and day. AT: "For you know the truth, like people who live in the light, like people during the day" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metaphor]])

# We are not sons of the night or the darkness

Paul speaks of evil and ignorance about God as if they were darkness. AT: We are not unknowing, like people who live in the darkness, like people at night" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metaphor]])

# let us not sleep as the rest do

Paul speaks of spiritual unawareness as if it were sleep. AT: "let us not be like others who are not aware that Jesus is coming back" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metaphor]])

# let us

The word "us" refers to all believers. (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-inclusive]])

# keep watch and be sober

Paul describes spiritual awareness as the opposite of sleep and drunkenness. (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metaphor]])

# For those who sleep do so at night

Just as when people sleep and do not know what is happening, so the people of this world do not know that Christ will return. (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metaphor]])

# those who get drunk do so at night

Paul is stating that it is at night when people become drunk, so when people are unaware of Christ's return they do not live a self-controlled life. (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metaphor]])

# translationWords

* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/brother]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/darkness]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/son]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/sleep]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/light]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/watch]]