# the word of Yahweh came

This is an idiom that is used to introduce something that God told his prophets or his people. See how you translated this in [Ezekiel 3:16](../03/16.md). AT: "Yahweh spoke this message" or "Yahweh spoke these words" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-idiom]])

# Son of man

"Son of a human being" or "Son of humanity or "Mortal person" or "Human". God calls Ezekiel this to emphasize that Ezekiel is only a human being. God is eternal and powerful, but humans are not. See how you translated this in [Ezekiel 2:1](../02/01.md).

# set your face toward Jerusalem

This is a command to stare at Jerusalem as a symbol of punishing the people there. AT: "stare at Jerusalem" or "stare at Jerusalem so that the people there will be harmed" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/translate-symaction]])

# set your face toward Jerusalem

Jerusalem was far away, so Ezekiel could not see it, but staring in that direction would be a symbol of harming it. See how you translated a similar phrase in [Ezekiel 6:2](../06/01.md) AT: "Turn toward Jerusalem and stare" or "stare toward Jerusalem so that the people there will be harmed" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/translate-symaction]])

# I will draw my sword from its sheath and cut off both the righteous person and the wicked person from you

This speaks of Yahweh causing these people to die as if he actually killed them with his own sword. AT: "I am opposed to you, and it will be as though I pull my sword from its sheath to kill both the righteous and the wicked people among you" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metaphor]])

# the righteous person and the wicked person

"righteous people and wicked people." This refers to multiple people, not just one righteous person and one wicked person.

# sheath

something that holds and covers a sword when no one is using it

# cut off

This is a euphemism that means to kill. AT: "kill" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-euphemism]])

# translationWords

* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/wordofgod]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/sonofman]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/face]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/jerusalem]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/sanctuary]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/prophet]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/sword]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/cutoff]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/righteous]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/evil]]