# General Information:

Yahweh is speaking to Ezekiel.

# groan as your loins break

Yahweh tells Ezekiel to groan as a sign to accompany his message. He tells him to groan deeply as if his abdomen was in great pain. "groan deeply as if your loins were in great pain" or "groan deeply with great sorrow" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-idiom]])

# In bitterness groan

"With great grief" or "With great sorrow"

# before their eyes

Here the Israelites are referred to by their "eyes" to emphasize what they see. AT: "before them" or "before the Israelite people" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-synecdoche]])

# the news that is coming

This speaks of the "news" as if it were a person that was soon coming to them. AT: "the news that they will soon hear" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-personification]])

# for every heart will faint away

This speaks of people becoming afraid, as if their hearts were fainting. Also, this speaks of the people fainting as a result of fear. AT: "for everyone will become fearful" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-synecdoche]] and [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metaphor]])

# will falter

"will be weak"

# Every spirit will grow faint

This speaks of people becoming fearful in their spirits as if their spirits were about to faint. AT: "Everyone will be fearful in their inner being" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metaphor]])

# every knee will flow like water

"every knee will be as weak as water." This is a euphemism for people being so afraid that they lose their bladder control and urinate on themselves. AT: "every leg will be wet with urine" or "everyone will lose control of their urine" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-euphemism]])

# this is the Lord Yahweh's declaration

Yahweh speaks of himself by name to express the certainty of what he is declaring. See how you translated this in [Ezekiel 5:11](../05/11.md). AT: "this is what the Lord Yahweh has declared" or "this is what I, the Lord Yahweh, have declared" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-123person]])

# translationWords

* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/loins]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/heart]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/spirit]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/lordyahweh]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/declare]]