# Connecting Statement:

Yahweh continues to describe the sword of Yahweh which is a metaphor for the enemy army that Yahweh will use to attack Jerusalem. (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metaphor]])

# It will be sharpened ... It will be polished in order to

These can be stated in active form. AT: "I will sharpen it ... I will polish it so that it will" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-activepassive]])

# in order to be like lightning

This means that the sword will be so shiny that light reflects off of it easily and brightly. AT: "so that it flashes like lightning" or "so that light reflects off of it as brightly as lightning" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-simile]])

# Should we rejoice in my son's scepter?

This rhetorical question emphasizes that the people of Israel will not celebrate their king's power, because it cannot resist the "sword." AT: "The people of Judah will not celebrate about their king's scepter." or "we should not celebrate the power of our king's scepter." (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-rquestion]])

# Should we

The word "we" refers to Ezekiel and the people of Israel. (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-inclusive]])

# in my son's scepter

Here Yahweh refers to the king of Judah as his son. The king's scepter represents his rule as king. It is important to maintain the image of the king's scepter here, as the words "every such rod" refer to the scepter. AT: "in the king's scepter" or "in the power that the king's scepter represents" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metonymy]])

# The coming sword hates every such rod

Here the "sword" is personified as coming to attack the people. This speaks of the king not being able to resist the "sword", as if the "sword" were hating the king's scepter. AT: "the sword will overpower his scepter like that of any other ruler" or "for the king will not be able to resist when the sword is brought against him" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-personification]])

# such rod

This phrase is used to mock the king's scepter by calling it a "rod." AT: "such scepter" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-irony]])

# the sword will be given to be polished

This can be stated in active form. AT: "I will polish the sword" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-activepassive]])

# then to be grasped by the hand

This can be stated in active form. AT: "then the right person will hold it in his hand" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-activepassive]])

# it is to be given into the hand of the one who kills

This can be stated in active form. AT: "it is ready for the killer to use" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-activepassive]])

# translationWords

* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/slaughter]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/joy]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/scepter]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/sword]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/rod]]