# Connecting Statement:

Yahweh continues to describe the sword of Yahweh which is a metaphor for the enemy army that Yahweh will use to attack Jerusalem. (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metaphor]])

# that sword has come against my people! It is against all

This speaks of Yahweh's sword attacking his people as if the sword itself were the attacker. AT: "I will use my sword to kill my people! I will bring it against all" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-personification]])

# They are thrown against the sword with my people

This speaks of the leaders of Israel being killed with a sword as if they are thrown against the sword. AT: "They are killed with the sword along with my people" or "The sword will kill them along with my people" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metaphor]])

# slap your thigh

In Ezekiel's culture, slapping one's thigh was a sign of grief. Some other translation use the gesture of beating one's breast which is a sign of grief in many cultures. AT: "beat your chests" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/translate-symaction]])

# but what if the scepter does not last?

This rhetorical question is used to make the audience think about what could happen. This question can be written as a statement. AT: "and it will be very frightening if the sword destroys the scepter." or "but it will be very frightening if the king cannot resist it." (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-rquestion]])

# the scepter

Here the king of Judah is represented by his scepter. AT: "the king" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metonymy]])

# does not last

This is an idiom. AT: "cannot resist" or "is destroyed" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-idiom]])

# translationWords

* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/lament]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/sonofman]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/peopleofgod]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/trial]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/scepter]]