# Connecting Statement:

Yahweh continues to describe the sword of Yahweh which is a metaphor for the enemy army that Yahweh will use to attack Jerusalem. (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metaphor]])

# to melt their hearts

This speaks of causing the people to be so terrified that it is as if their hearts were melting. AT: "to fill them with terror" or "to cause them to be terrified" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metaphor]])

# to multiply their fallen

Here "fallen" refers to the people killed in battle. This means there will be a greater number of people killed. AT: "to kill many people among them" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metonymy]])

# set the sword for slaughter

Here the sword of Yahweh represents men with swords that are to attack Jerusalem. Also, the word "slaughter" can be expressed as a verb. AT: "placed soldiers armed with swords at their gates, ready to slaughter the people" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metaphor]] and [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-abstractnouns]])

# their gates

The word "their" refers to the people of Jerusalem.

# It is made like lightning

This compares how the sword is well polished and how it reflects light to appear like lightning. AT: "My sword is polished and flashes like lightning" or "It is polished and reflects light as being like lightning" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-simile]])

# it is grasped for slaughter

The sword of Yahweh represents the men with swords that are to attack Jerusalem. AT: "released to slaughter the people" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metaphor]])

# You, sword! Strike to the right! ... Go wherever your face is turned. For

Here Yahweh speaks to those who will attack his people as if they could hear him and as if they were a sword that they would use in the attack. He does this to emphasize that he is in control of what is happening during the attack. The phrase "wherever your face is turned" is an idiom for "wherever you desire to go." AT: "I tell those attacking with swords, 'Strike to the right! ... Attack in every direction.' For" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-apostrophe]] and [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metonymy]] and [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-idiom]])

# hit my two hands together

"clap my hands." Here clapping hands is a sign of triumph. AT: "clap my hands in triumph" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/translate-symaction]])

# translationWords

* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/heart]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/slaughter]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/gate]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/woe]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/yahweh]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/declare]]