# drunken celebrations, having wild parties

These terms refer to activities in which people gather to drink alcohol excessively and behave in a shameful manner.

# floods of reckless behavior

These examples of wild, boundless sin are spoken of as if they were great floods of water that sweep over people.

# reckless behavior

doing everything they can to satisfy the desires of their bodies

# the one who is ready to judge

Possible meanings are 1) "God, who is ready to judge" or 2) "Christ, who is ready to judge"

# the living and the dead

This means all people, whether they are still alive or have died. AT: "every person" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-merism]])

# the gospel was preached also to the dead

Possible meanings are 1) "the gospel was preached also to people who had already died" or 2) "the gospel was preached also to those who were alive but are now dead"

# the gospel was preached

This can be stated in active form. Possible meanings are 1) Christ preached. AT: "Christ preached the gospel" or 2) men preached. AT: "men preached the gospel" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-activepassive]])

# they have been judged in the flesh as humans

This can be stated in active form. Possible meanings are 1) God judged them in this life on earth. AT: "God judged them in their bodies as humans" or 2) men judged them according to human standards. AT: "men judged them in their bodies as humans" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-activepassive]])

# judged in the flesh as humans

This is a reference to death as the ultimate form of judgment. (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-euphemism]])

# live in the spirit the way God does

Possible meanings are 1) "live spiritually as God lives because the Holy Spirit will enable them to do so" or 2) "live according to God's standards by the power of the Holy Spirit"

# translationWords

* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/gentile]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/drunk]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/falsegod]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/evil]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/judge]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/life]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/death]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/goodnews]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/preach]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/god]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/spirit]]