# household of God

This phrase refers to believers, whom Peter speaks of as God's family. (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metaphor]])

# If it begins with us, what will be the outcome for those who do not obey God's gospel?

Peter use this question to emphasize that God's judgment will be more severe for people who reject the gospel than for believers. AT: "If it begins with us, the outcome for those who do not obey God's gospel will be much worse." (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-rquestion]])

# what will be the outcome for those

"what will happen to those"

# those who do not obey God's gospel

"those who do not believe God's gospel." Here the word "obey" means to believe.

# the righteous ... what will become of the ungodly and the sinner?

Peter use this question to emphasize that sinners will suffer much more than believers do. AT: "the righteous man ... the outcome will be much worse for the ungodly and the sinner." (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-rquestion]])

# what will become of the ungodly and the sinner

"what will happen to the ungodly and the sinner"

# If it is difficult for the righteous to be saved

Here the word "saved" refers to final salvation when Christ returns. This can be stated in active form. AT: "If the righteous person experiences many difficulties before God saves him" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-activepassive]])

# the ungodly and the sinner

The words "ungodly" and "sinner" mean basically the same thing and emphasize the wickedness of these people. AT: "ungodly sinners" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-doublet]])

# entrust their souls

Here the word "souls" refers to the whole person. AT: "entrust themselves" or "entrust their lives" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-synecdoche]])

# in well-doing

The abstract noun "well-doing" can be translated with a verbal phrase. AT: "while they do good" or "while they live rightly" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-abstractnouns]])

# translationWords

* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/judge]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/household]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/god]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/obey]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/goodnews]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/righteous]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/save]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/godly]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/sin]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/willofgod]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/soul]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/faithful]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/creation]]