# General Information:

David continues to speak to the Israelites.

# Now then, in the sight of all Israel ... all of you must

Here David is giving a command to all of the people of Israel. AT: "Now then, in the sight of all Israel, this assembly for Yahweh, and in the presence of our God, I command all of you to" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-explicit]])

# Now then

This indicates that David starts a new phase in his speech.

# all Israel, this assembly for Yahweh

These two phrases have the same meaning and the second describes the first. Even though all of the people of Israel are not present, those present represent all of Israel. AT: "all you people of Israel, in this assembly for Yahweh" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-parallelism]] and [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-synecdoche]])

# in the sight of

The phrase "in the sight of" means that they are all present and listening. AT: "in the hearing of" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-idiom]])

# keep and try to carry out

The phrase "to carry out" means basically the same thing as "keep." Together the words emphasize importance of doing what God commands. AT: "carefully obey" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-doublet]])

# your children after you forever

This means that the land will belong to their children and the descendants in the future. The phrase "after you" is an idiom. AT: "your children and your descendants who will take your place after you die" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-synecdoche]] and [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-idiom]])

# translationWords

* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/assembly]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/possess]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/inherit]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/children]]