# the God of your father

David calls himself "your father" because this is a very formal occasion. AT: "my God" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-123person]])

# with your whole heart

Here the "heart" the represents the whole person. To do something with "your whole heart" is an idiom. AT: "with complete devotion" or "completely" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-synecdoche]] and [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-idiom]])

# a willing spirit

Here the "spirit" represents the whole person and emphasizes the person's will. AT: "willingly" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-synecdoche]])

# searches all hearts and understands every motivation of everyone's thoughts

These two phrases mean basically the same thing and emphasize that Yahweh knows the thoughts and motives of every person. (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-parallelism]])

# all hearts

Here people's "hearts" represent their feelings and desires. AT: "searches everyone's emotions and desires" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metonymy]])

# If you seek him, he will be found by you

This can be written in active form. Also, this speaks of following Yahweh and having him listen to you as searching for him and finding him. AT: "If you seek him, you will find him" or "If you try to get Yahweh to pay attention to you, he will do so" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-activepassive]] and [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metaphor]])

# Realize

"Be aware"

# Be strong and do it

The word "strong" here refers to willpower and strength of character.

# translationWords

* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/solomon]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/obey]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/god]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/serve]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/heart]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/spirit]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/seek]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/reject]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/temple]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/sanctuary]]