# It came about

This phrase is used here to mark the beginning of a new part of the story. If your language has a way for doing this, you could consider using it here. (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/writing-newevent]])

# after these things

This phrase refers to the events in chapter 21.

# God tested Abraham

It is implied that God tests Abraham to learn if Abraham will be faithful to him. The full meaning of this statement can be made explicit. AT: God tested Abraham's faithfulness" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-explicit]])

# Here I am

"Yes, I am listening" or "Yes, what is it?"

# your only son

It is implied that God knows that Abraham has another son, Ishmael. This emphasizes that Isaac is the son that God promised to give Abraham. The full meaning of this statement can be made explicit. AT: "your only son whom I have promised" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-explicit]])

# whom you love

This emphasizes Abraham's love for his son, Isaac.

# the land of Moriah

"the land called Moriah" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/translate-names]])

# saddled his donkey

"loaded his donkey" or "put on his donkey what he needed for the journey"

# young men

"servants"

# set out on his journey

"started his journey" or "started traveling"

# translationWords

* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/god]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/test]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/abraham]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/isaac]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/love]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/burntoffering]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/donkey]]