# the angel of Yahweh

Possible meanings are 1) Yahweh made himself look like an angel or 2) this was one of Yahweh's angels or 3) this was a special messenger from God (some scholars think it was Jesus). Since the phrase is not well understood, it is best to simply translate it as "the angel of Yahweh" using the normal word that you use for "angel." See the note about this phrase in [Genesis 16:7](../16/07.md).

# from heaven

This refers to the place where God lives.

# Here I am

"Yes, I am listening" or "Yes, what is it?" See how you translated this in [Genesis 22:1](./01.md).

# Do not lay your hand upon the lad, nor do anything to harm him

The phrase "Do no lay your hand upon" is a way of saying "do not harm." God said basically the same thing twice to emphasize that Abraham should not hurt Isaac. AT: "Do not hurt the boy in any way" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-idiom]] and [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-parallelism]])

# now I know ... from me

The words "I" and "me" refer to Yahweh. When translating what is in the quote, do it as the angel of Yahweh did and use the words "I" and "me" when referring to Yahweh.

# you fear God

This refers to deeply respecting God and showing that respect by obeying him.

# seeing that

"because I see that"

# you have not withheld your son ... from me

"you have not held back your son ... from me." This can be stated in positive form. AT: "you were willing to offer your son ... to me" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-doublenegatives]])

# your son, your only son

It is implied that God knows that Abraham has another son, Ishmael. This emphasizes that Isaac is the son that God promised to give Abraham. See how you translated a similar phrase in [Genesis 22:2](./01.md). (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-explicit]])

# translationWords

* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/angel]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/yahweh]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/heaven]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/names/abraham]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/fear]]