# General Information:

The angel of Yahweh continues speaking to Abraham.

# all the nations of the earth will be blessed

This can be stated in active form. AT: "I, the Lord, will bless all the people living everywhere" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-activepassive]])

# nations of the earth

Here "nations" stands for the people of the nations. (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metonymy]])

# you have obeyed my voice

Here "voice" stands for what God said. AT: "you have obeyed what I said" or "you have obeyed me" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metonymy]])

# Abraham returned

Only Abraham was named because he was the father, but it was implied that his son went with him. The full meaning of this statement can be made explicit. AT: "Abraham and his son went back" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-explicit]])

# young men

"servants"

# they departed

"they left that place"

# he lived at Beersheba

Only Abraham was mentioned because he was the leader of his family and servants, but it was implied that they were with him. The full meaning of this statement can be made explicit. AT: "Abraham and his people stayed in Beersheba" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-explicit]])

# translationWords

* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/offspring]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/nation]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/bless]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/obey]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/voice]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/names/abraham]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/names/beersheba]]