# whom I serve from my forefathers

"whom I serve as my ancestors did"

# with a clean conscience

Paul speaks of his conscience as if it could be physically clean. This means that a person does not feel guilty because he has always tried to do what was right. AT: "knowing I have tried my hardest to do what is right" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metaphor]])

# as I constantly remember you

"when I remember you continually" or "while I remember you all the time"

# night and day

Here "night and day" are used together to mean "always." AT: "Always" or "Constantly" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-merism]])

# I long to see you

"I want very much to see you"

# I may be filled with joy

Paul speaks of himself as if he were a container that someone could fill. This can be stated in active form. AT: "I may be full of joy" or "I may have complete joy" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metaphor]] and [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-activepassive]])

# I remember your tears

Here "tears" represents crying. AT: "I remember how you cried for me" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metonymy]])

# I have been reminded of your

This can be stated in active form. AT: "I also remember your" or "I also recall your" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-activepassive]])

# your genuine faith

"your faith that is real" or "your faith that is sincere"

# faith, which lived first in your grandmother Lois and your mother Eunice, and I am convinced that it lives in you also

Paul is speaking of their faith as if it were something that was alive and lived in them. Paul means they have the same sort of faith. This can be stated as a new sentence. AT: "faith. Lois, your grandmother, and Eunice, your mother, first had genuine faith, and I am confident that you have genuine faith as well" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metaphor]])

# Lois ... Eunice

These are names of women. (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/translate-names]])

# translationWords

* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/god]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/serve]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/father]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/conscience]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/pray]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/joy]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/faith]]