# General Information:

Isaiah continues speaking to the people of Israel about the evil they do using the metaphors of poisonous snakes and spider's webs.

# They hatch eggs of a poisonous snake

Eggs of a poisonous snake hatch into more dangerous snakes. "Poisonous snakes" represents evil the people do that harms more and more. AT: "They make evil that spreads out to make more evil" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metaphor]])

# weave a spider's web

This represents the deeds of the people that are useless. AT: "produce things and activities that are useless" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metaphor]])

# Whoever eats of their eggs dies, and if an egg is crushed, it hatches into a poisonous snake

Eating a poisonous egg will kill the one that eats it and represents self-destruction. Breaking the egg allows the young poisonous snake to hatch and represents spreading destruction. AT: "The activities they do will destroy them and will spread destruction to others" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metaphor]])

# if an egg is crushed

This can be stated in active form. AT: "if someone crushes an egg" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-activepassive]])

# Their webs cannot be used for garments, nor can they cover themselves with their works

This means their sinful deeds cannot be covered and hidden, just as a web cannot serve as clothing and cover someone. AT: "Their evil deeds will be exposed as useless" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metaphor]])

# Their webs cannot be used for garments

This can be stated in active form. AT: "They cannot clothe themselves with their webs" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-activepassive]])

# deeds of violence are in their hands

"Hands" represents the ability and power to do these things and therefore their responsibility. AT: "they are fully responsible for the violence they do" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metonymy]])

# translationWords

* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/serpent]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/works]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/sin]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/hand]]