# Is it a small thing that you have brought us ... to kill us in the wilderness?

Dathan and Abiram use this question to rebuke Moses. It can be translated as a statement. AT: "You behave as though it was a small thing for you to bring us ... and kill us in the wilderness." (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-rquestion]])

# a small thing

"not enough" or "unimportant"

# a land flowing with milk and honey

They spoke of the land being good for animals and plants as if the milk and honey from those animals and plants were flowing through the land. See how you translated this in [Numbers 14:08](../14/06.md). AT: "that is excellent for raising livestock and growing crops" or "a very fertile land" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metaphor]] and [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metonymy]])

# to kill us

The people exaggerate because they will hold Moses responsible if any of them die. AT: "to have us die" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-hyperbole]])

# as an inheritance

They spoke of what God would give them to be theirs forever as if it were an inheritance. (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metaphor]])

# Now do you want to blind us with empty promises?

The people used this question to accuse Moses. It can be translated as a statement. AT: "Now you want to blind us with empty promises." (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-rquestion]])

# to blind us

Deceiving people is spoken of as making them blind. AT: "to deceive us" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metaphor]])

# with empty promises

They speak of promises that are not kept as if they are empty containers. AT: "with promises that you do not keep" or "by promising to do things that you do not do" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metaphor]])

# translationWords

* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/call]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/honey]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/desert]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/ruler]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/vineyard]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/inherit]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/promise]]