# General Information:

Verse 9 tells what Jesus asked his disciples to do because of the large crowd of people around him. Verse 10 tells why such a large crowd was around Jesus. The information in these verses can be reordered to present the events in the order they happened, as in the UDB. (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-events]])

# He asked his disciples to have a small boat ... not crush him

As the large crowd was pushing forward toward Jesus, he was in danger of being crushed by them. They would not crush him intentionally. It was just that there were so many people.

# He asked his disciples

"Jesus told his disciples"

# For he healed many, so that everyone ... to touch him

This tells why so many people were crowding around Jesus that he thought they might crush him. AT: "For, because Jesus had healed many people, everyone ... to touch him" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/writing-connectingwords]])

# For he healed many

The word "many" refers to the large number of people Jesus had already healed. AT: "For he healed many people" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-ellipsis]])

# everyone who had afflictions eagerly approached him in order to touch him

They did this because they believed that touching Jesus would make them well. This can be expressed clearly. AT: "all the sick people pushed forward eagerly trying to touch him so that they might be healed" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-explicit]]) 

# translationWords

* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/disciple]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/heal]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/afflict]]