# On that day

"at that time" or "when I do those things." These words refer to "the last days" ([Micah 4:1](./01.md)). The word "day" can refer to a period of days or even years.

# the lame

This refers to those who cannot walk well. Being lame is a synecdoche for having any form of disability. (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-synecdoche]])

# gather the outcast

"gather those whom I drove out of Jerusalem"

# the ones driven away into a strong nation

This can be translated in active form. The words omitted by the ellipsis can be added. AT: "I will make the ones I drove away into a strong nation" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-activepassive]] and [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-ellipsis]])

# As for you, watchtower for the flock, hill of the daughter of Zion—to you it will come, your former dominion

Micah speaks to the people of Jerusalem by speaking to the temple mount as if it could hear him. You may need to make explicit that Micah is giving his message to the people. AT: "As for the temple mount, the place from which Yahweh watches over you, his sheep, the place that Jerusalem's people are most proud of—its former dominion will return" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-apostrophe]])

# watchtower for the flock

The people of Jerusalem protecting the other people in surrounding areas is spoken of as if they were a shepherd in a watchtower watching over his flock. (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metaphor]])

# daughter of Zion ... daughter of Jerusalem

The people who live in a place are spoken of as if the place is a mother and they are the daughter. AT: "people who live in Zion ... people who live in Jerusalem" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metaphor]])

# hill

Some modern versions understand this Hebrew word to mean "fortress" or "stronghold" here.

# to you it will come, your former dominion

The abstract noun "dominion" can be translated as a verb. AT: "you will rule over the nations as you did before" or "I will make you rule over the nations as you did before" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-abstractnouns]])

# translationWords

* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/afflict]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/remnant]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/castout]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/nation]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/yahweh]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/reign]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/zion]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/forever]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/watchtower]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/flock]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/kingdom]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/jerusalem]]