# Now, why do you shout so loudly?

Micah is mocking the people, trying to make them think about why God is dealing with them in this way. This question can be translated as a statement. AT: "Look at how you are shouting loudly." or "Think carefully about why you are shouting loudly." (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-rquestion]])

# Is there no king among you? Has your counselor died? Is this why pain grips you like that of a woman in labor?

Micah continues to mock the people. These questions can be translated as statements. AT: "You have a king, but he is useless to you. All your wise people are still alive, but they have nothing wise to say to you. This is why you are weeping loudly like a woman who is giving birth to a baby." (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-rquestion]] and [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-simile]])

# Be in pain ... like a woman in labor

Micah compares the suffering the people will experience when enemies force them away from their cities to the pain a woman experiences when giving birth to a baby. (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-simile]])

# There you will be rescued. There Yahweh will rescue you

Yahweh says the same thing in both active and passive forms to emphasize that he will do what he has said he will do. This can be translated in active form. AT: "There Yahweh will rescue you. There he will rescue you" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-activepassive]])

# the hand of your enemies

Possible meanings for the word "hand" are 1) it could be a metonym for the power that the hand exercises, AT: "the power of your enemies" or 2) it could be a synecdoche for the person. AT: "your enemies" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metonymy]] and [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-synecdoche]])