# General Information:

Parallelism is common in Hebrew poetry. (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/writing-poetry]] and [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-parallelism]])

# For the chief musician

"This is for the director of music to use in worship."

# A psalm of David

Possible meanings are 1) David wrote the psalm or 2) the psalm is about David or 3) the psalm is in the style of David's psalms.

# The heavens declare

The heavens are described as if they were a person. AT: "The heavens show" or "The heavens look like they declare"

# the skies make his handiwork known

The skies are described as if they were a teacher. AT: "The skies seem to make God's handiwork known to us" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-personification]])

# his handiwork

"his creation" or "the world that he has made"

# speech pours out

What is beautiful about creation is compared to speaking, as if creation were a person. Then those words are compared to water that flows everywhere. AT: "creation is like a person speaking to everyone" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-personification]] and [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metaphor]])

# There is no speech or spoken words; their voice is not heard

These phrases express clearly that the first two verses were a metaphor. AT: "There is no real speech or spoken words; no one hears an actual voice with their ears"

# their voice is not heard

Other translations read "where their voice is not heard," emphasizing that creation's "speech" is available everywhere.

# translationWords

* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/psalm]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/david]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/heaven]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/glory]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/god]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/reveal]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/know]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/word]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/voice]]