# General Information:

David has just said that creation shows God's glory.

# their words ... their speech

This refers to the unspoken "words" of creation that show God's glory.

# their words go out

The words are described as if they were people who go out with a message. AT: "the words that creation speaks are like people who go out" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-personification]])

# their speech to the end of the world

The implied words can be included in the translation. AT: "their speech goes out to the end of the world" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-ellipsis]])

# He has pitched a tent for the sun

Here the writer speaks of the place that Yahweh created for the sun as if it were a tent. AT: "He created a place for the sun" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metaphor]])

# among them

The word "them" probably refers to the heavens.

# The sun is like a bridegroom coming out of his chamber

The writer speaks of the sun's coming out as if it were a bridegroom. AT: "The sun is like a bridegroom walking joyfully toward his bride" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-simile]])

# like a strong man who rejoices when he runs his race

This compares the sun to an athlete to emphasize the strength and brightness of the sun. (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-simile]])

# a strong man

"a fast runner"

# horizon

the line where the earth and the sky meet

# to the other

Here "other" refers to the other horizon. This can be stated clearly in the translation. AT: "to the other horizon" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-explicit]])

# nothing escapes its heat

This can be stated in positive form. AT: "everything feels its heat" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-doublenegatives]])

# translationWords

* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/word]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/earth]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/tent]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/bridegroom]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/rejoice]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/heaven]]