# We will rise and go that we may live and not die, both we, you, and also our children

The phrases "we may live" and "not die" mean the same thing. Judah is emphasizing that they have to buy food in Egypt in order to survive. AT: "We will go now to Egypt and get grain so our whole family will live" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-parallelism]])

# We will rise

Here "We" refers to the brothers who will travel to Egypt. (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-exclusive]])

# we may live

Here "we" refers to the brothers, Israel, and the whole family. (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-inclusive]])

# both we

Here "we" refers to the brothers. (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-exclusive]])

# we, you

Here "you" is singular and refers to Israel. (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-you]])

# also our children

Here "our" refers to the brothers. This refers to the small children who were most likely to die during a famine. (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-exclusive]])

# I will be a guarantee for him

The abstract noun "guarantee" can be stated as the verb "promise." AT: "I will promise to bring him back" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-abstractnouns]])

# You will hold me responsible

How Jacob will hold Judah responsible can be stated clearly. AT: "You will make me answer to you about what happens to Benjamin" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-explicit]])

# let me bear the blame

This speaks about "blame" as if it were an object that a person has to carry. AT: "you may blame me" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metaphor]])

# For if we had not delayed

Judah is describing something that could have happened in the past but did not. Judah is scolding his father for waiting so long to send his sons to Egypt to get more food. (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-hypo]])

# we would have come back here a second time

"we would have returned twice"

# translationWords

* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/judah]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/jacob]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/forever]]