# An adversary arose against Israel

Possible meanings of "adversary" are 1) this refers to Satan who decided to cause trouble for Israel or 2) this refers to an enemy army that began to threaten Israel.

# incited

to have caused someone to act

# count the people of Israel ... that I may know their number

It is apparent from [1 Chronicles 21:5](./04.md) that David wanted to count only the men who were able to fight.

# from Beersheba to Dan

The Israelites considered these two cities their most southern and most northern cities. David uses these cities to refer to all of Israel. (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-merism]])

# a hundred times greater than it is

Joab expresses the desire for an army the size of 100 armies to say he would like the army to have more soldiers and be more powerful. (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-hyperbole]])

# But my master the king, do they not all serve my master? Why does my master want this? Why bring guilt on Israel?

Job uses these three rhetorical questions to tell David that the census was a bad idea. It appears that David was trusting the size of his army instead of trusting Yahweh, and thus making Israel guilty of sin. These rhetorical questions can be translated as statements. AT: But my master the king, they all serve you already. My master should not request this. You will only bring guilt on the people of Israel by trusting your military power." (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-rquestion]])

# Why does my master want this?

The word "this" refers to David's plan to count all the men of Israel.

# translationWords

* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/adversary]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/israel]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/david]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/joab]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/commander]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/beersheba]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/dan]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/yahweh]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/lord]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/king]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/serve]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/guilt]]