# standing between earth and heaven

This is symbolic language to indicate that the angel was sent from Yahweh in heaven to judge the people on the earth. (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/writing-symlanguage]])

# having a drawn sword in his hand raised over Jerusalem

The angel holding a sword in his hand is a symbolic action that shows he is ready to attack Jerusalem. This is symbolic, because the judgment was sickness. AT: "holding a sword in his hand as if ready to attack Jerusalem" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/translate-symaction]])

# clothed in sackcloth, lay facedown on the ground

These were symbols of repentance. (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/translate-symaction]])

# Is it not I that commanded that the army be numbered?

David uses this question to emphasize that his is the one who sinned by counting the people. AT: "I am the one who commanded that the army be numbered." (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-rquestion]])

# But these sheep

David speaks of the people of Israel as if they were sheep, who are known for trusting and following their leader. (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metaphor]])

# what have they done?

David uses this question to asks God not to punish the people. This rhetorical question can be translated as a statement. AT: "they certainly have done nothing that deserves punishment." (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-rquestion]])

# Let your hand strike me and my family

Here "hand" represents Yahweh's power to punish. AT: "Punish me and my family" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metonymy]])

# translationWords

* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/earth]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/heaven]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/jerusalem]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/elder]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/sackcloth]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/god]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/command]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/evil]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/sheep]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/hand]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/family]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/plague]]