# All the gold that was used for the project

This can be stated in active form. AT: "All the gold that the people used for the project" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-activepassive]])

# twenty-nine talents ... one hundred talents

"29 talents ... 100 talents." A talent is about 33 kilograms. AT: "29 talents ... 100 talents" or "about 960 kilograms ... about 330 kilograms" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/translate-numbers]] and [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/translate-bweight]])

# 730 shekels ... 1,775 shekels

"Seven hundred and thirty shekels ... one thousand seven hundred and seventy-five shekels." A shekel is 11 grams. (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/translate-numbers]] and [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/translate-bweight]])

# measured by the standard of the sanctuary shekel

There were evidently shekels of more than one weight at the time. This specified which one was to be used. See how you translated this in [Exodus 30:13](../30/11.md). (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/translate-bweight]])

# The silver given by the community

This can be stated in active form. AT: "The silver which the community gave" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-activepassive]])

# one beka

A beka is 1/2 a shekel. (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/translate-bweight]])

# half a shekel

A shekel is 11 grams. AT: "1/2 a shekel" or "five and a half grams" or "5 1/2 grams" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/translate-bweight]] and [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/translate-fraction]])

# This figure was reached on the basis of every person who was counted in the census

Every man who was 20 years old or older was included in the census and was required to give half a shekel.

# twenty years old

"20 years old" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/translate-numbers]])