# Connecting Statement:

Paul now changes topics.

# General Information:

Paul gives thanks to God for the believers and encourages them.

# But

Paul uses this word here to mark a change in topic.

# we should always give thanks

The word "always" is a generalization. AT: "we should continually give thanks" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-hyperbole]])

# we should

Here "we" refers to Paul, Silvanus, and Timothy.

# brothers loved by the Lord

This can be stated in active form. AT: "for the Lord loves you, brothers" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-activepassive]])

# brothers

Here "brothers" means fellow Christians, including both men and women. AT: "brothers and sisters" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-gendernotations]])

# as the firstfruits for salvation in sanctification of the Spirit and belief in the truth

Being among the first people to be saved is spoken of as if the Thessalonian believers are "firstfruits." This can also be stated to remove the abstract nouns "salvation," "sanctification," "belief," and "truth." AT: "to be among the first people who believe what is true, and whom God has saved and set apart for himself by his Spirit" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metaphor]] and [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-abstractnouns]])

# So then, brothers, stand firm

Paul exhorts the believers to hold fast to their faith in Jesus.

# hold tightly to the traditions

Here "traditions" refers to the truths of Christ that Paul and the other apostles taught. Paul speaks of them as if his readers could hold on to them with their hands. AT: "remember the traditions" or "believe the truths" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metaphor]])

# you were taught

This can be stated in active form. AT: "we have taught you" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-activepassive]])

# whether by word or by our letter

"By word" here is a synecdoche for "by instructions" or "by teachings." You can make clear the implicit information. AT: "whether by what we taught you in person or by what we wrote to you in a letter" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-explicit]] and [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-synecdoche]])

# translationWords

* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/god]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/brother]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/love]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/lord]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/elect]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/firstfruit]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/save]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/sanctify]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/holyspirit]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/believe]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/true]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/call]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/goodnews]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/glory]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/jesus]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/tradition]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/letter]]