# Connecting Statement:

The writer shows the weakness of the law and its sacrifices, why God gave the law, and the perfection of the new priesthood and Christ's sacrifice.

# the law is only a shadow of the good things to come

This speaks about the law as if it were a shadow. The author means the law is not the good things that God had promised. It only hints at the good things that God is going to do. (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metaphor]])

# not the real forms of those things themselves

"not the real things themselves"

# year after year

"every year"

# would the sacrifices not have ceased to be offered?

The author uses a question to state that the sacrifices were limited in their power. This can be stated in active form. AT: "they would have ceased offering those sacrifices." (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-rquestion]] and [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-activepassive]])

# ceased

"stopped"

# the worshipers would have been cleansed

Here being cleansed represents no longer being guilty of sin. This can be stated in active form. AT: "the sacrifices would have taken away their sin" or "God would have made them no longer guilty of sin" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metaphor]] and [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-activepassive]])

# would no longer have any consciousness of sin

"would no longer think that they are guilty of sin" or "would know that they are no longer guilty of sin"

# For it is impossible for the blood of bulls and goats to take away sins

Sins are spoken of as if they were objects that animal blood could sweep away as it flowed. AT: "For it is impossible for the blood of bulls and goats to cause God to forgive sins" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metaphor]])

# the blood of bulls and goats

Here "blood" refers to these animals dying as sacrifices to God. (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metonymy]])

# translationWords

* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/lawofmoses]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/shadow]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/good]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/god]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/perfect]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/sacrifice]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/priest]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/clean]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/sin]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/sign]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/blood]]