# Connecting Statement:

Having made it clear that there is only one sacrifice for sin, the writer continues with the picture of the most holy place in the temple, where only the high priest could enter each year with the blood of the sacrifice for sins. He reminds the believers that they now worship God in his presence as if they were standing in the most holy place.

# brothers

Here this means all believers in Christ whether male or female. AT: "brothers and sisters" or "fellow believers" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metaphor]] and [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-gendernotations]])

# the most holy place

This means the presence of God, not the most holy place in the old tabernacle. (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metaphor]])

# by the blood of Jesus

Here "blood of Jesus" refers to the death of Jesus. (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metonymy]])

# living way

Possible meanings are 1) this new way to God that Jesus has provided results in believers living forever or 2) Jesus is alive, and he is the way believers enter into the presence of God.

# through the curtain

The curtain in the earthly temple represents the separation between people and God's true presence. (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metaphor]])

# by means of his flesh

Here "flesh" stands for the body of Jesus, and his body stands for his sacrificial death. AT: "by means of his death" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metonymy]])

# we have a great priest over the house of God

This must be translated in such a way as to make it clear that Jesus is this "great priest."

# over the house

"in charge of the house"

# the house of God

This speaks about God's people as if they were a literal house. AT: "all the people of God" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metaphor]])

# let us approach

Here "approach" stands for worshiping God, as a priest would go up to God's altar to sacrifice animals to him. (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metonymy]])

# with true hearts

"with faithful hearts" or "with honest hearts." Here "hearts" stands for the genuine will and motivation of the believers. AT: "with sincerity" or "sincerely" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metonymy]])

# in the full assurance of faith

"and with a confident faith" or "and trusting completely in Jesus"

# having our hearts sprinkled clean

This can be stated in active form. AT: "as if had he made our hearts clean with his blood" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-activepassive]])

# hearts sprinkled clean

Here "hearts" is a metonym for the conscience, the awareness of right and wrong. Being made clean is a metaphor for being forgiven and being given the status of righteousness. (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metonymy]] and [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metaphor]])

# sprinkled

Sprinkling was a symbolic action done by the priests by which they applied the benefits of the covenant to people and to objects. See how you translated this in [Hebrews 9:19](../09/18.md). (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/translate-symaction]])

# having our bodies washed with pure water

This can be stated in active form. AT: "as if he had washed our bodies in pure water" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-activepassive]])

# our bodies washed with pure water

If the translator understands this phrase as referring to Christian baptism, then "water" is literal, not figurative. But if water is taken as literal, then "pure" is figurative, standing for the spiritual purity that baptism is said here to accomplish. The "washing" stands for the believer being made acceptable to God. (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metonymy]] and [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metaphor]])

# translationWords

* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/brother]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/confidence]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/holyplace]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/blood]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/jesus]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/life]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/curtain]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/flesh]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/priest]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/houseofgod]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/true]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/heart]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/faith]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/clean]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/evil]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/conscience]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/water]]