# let us approach

Here "approach" stands for worshiping God, as a priest would go up to God's altar to sacrifice animals to him. (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metonymy]])

# with true hearts

"with faithful hearts" or "with honest hearts." Here "hearts" stands for the genuine will and motivation of the believers. Alternate translation: "with sincerity" or "sincerely" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metonymy]])

# in the full assurance of faith

"and with a confident faith" or "and trusting completely in Jesus"

# having our hearts sprinkled clean

This can be stated in active form. Alternate translation: "as if had he made our hearts clean with his blood" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-activepassive]])

# hearts sprinkled clean

Here "hearts" is a metonym for the conscience, the awareness of right and wrong. Being made clean is a metaphor for being forgiven and being given the status of righteousness. (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metonymy]] and [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metaphor]])

# sprinkled

Sprinkling was a symbolic action done by the priests by which they applied the benefits of the covenant to people and to objects. See how you translated this in [Hebrews 9:19](../09/19.md). (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/translate-symaction]])

# having our bodies washed with pure water

This can be stated in active form. Alternate translation: "as if he had washed our bodies in pure water" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-activepassive]])

# our bodies washed with pure water

If the translator understands this phrase as referring to Christian baptism, then "water" is literal, not figurative. But if water is taken as literal, then "pure" is figurative, standing for the spiritual purity that baptism is said here to accomplish. The "washing" stands for the believer being made acceptable to God. (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metonymy]] and [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metaphor]])

