# of two or three witnesses

It is implied that this means "of at least two or three witness." (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-explicit]])

# How much worse punishment do you think one deserves ... grace?

The author is emphasizing the greatness of the punishment for those who reject Christ. AT: "This was severe punishment. But the punishment will be even greater for anyone ... grace!" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-rquestion]])

# has trampled underfoot the Son of God

Disregarding Christ and scorning him are spoken of as if someone had walked on him. AT: "has rejected the Son of God" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metaphor]])

# the Son of God

This is an important title for Jesus. (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/guidelines-sonofgodprinciples]])

# who treated the blood of the covenant as unholy

This shows how the person has trampled the Son of God. AT: "by treating the blood of the covenant as unholy"

# the blood of the covenant

Here "blood" stands for Christ's death, by which God established the new covenant. (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metonymy]])

# the blood by which he was sanctified

This can be stated in active form. AT: "the blood by which God sanctified him" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-activepassive]])

# the Spirit of grace

"the Spirit of God, who provides grace"

# translationWords

* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/reject]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/lawofmoses]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/death]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/mercy]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/testimony]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/witness]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/punish]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/trample]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/sonofgod]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/blood]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/covenant]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/unholy]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/sanctify]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/holyspirit]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/grace]]