# General Information:

Elihu continues speaking. Each of these verses contain parallel phrases. (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-parallelism]])

# you men of understanding

Elihu is criticizing Job and his friends. He does not actually think they are wise. (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-irony]])

# far be it from God ... far be it from the Almighty that he should commit sin

These two phrases have the same meaning and are used together to emphasize that God would never do anything wrong. The phrase "far be it from" is an idiom. AT: "Almighty God would never consider doing anything that is wicked or wrong!" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-parallelism]] and [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-idiom]])

# For he pays back a person's work

This means that he gives to a person what he deserves for the work he has done. Here "work" is a metaphor for what a person does. AT: "For he gives to a person what he deserves in return for he does" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metaphor]])

# he makes every man come upon the reward of his own ways

The phrase "his own ways" is an idiom for how a person lives his life. Elihu emphasizes that God gives to people what they deserve. AT: "he causes every man to receive the reward he deserves for how he lives" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-idiom]])

# translationWords

* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/understand]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/evil]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/almighty]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/sin]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/reward]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/perverse]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/justice]]