# General Information:

Elihu continues speaking.

# God, who says to a king, 'You are vile,' or says to nobles, 'You are wicked'?

This continues the rhetorical question from the previous verse, emphasizing to Job that he cannot condemn God. This can be written as a statement. AT: "He says to some kings, 'You are vile,' and he says to some nobles, 'You are wicked.'" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-rquestion]])

# God, who says to a king

This is part of the previous question. The understood words from the previous verse, "will you condemn God," may be supplied. AT: "Will you condemn God, who says to a king" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-ellipsis]])

# vile

"evil" or "worthless"

# for they all are the work of his hands

Here "hands" refer to power. AT: "for God made them all" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metonymy]])

# at midnight

Midnight is the time when one day ends and another begins. Here "midnight" is used as an idiom. AT: "at night" or "suddenly, at night" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-idiom]])

# people will be shaken and will pass away

This can be stated in active form. The phrase "will be shaken" is an idiom that means to be "struck." AT: "God strikes them and they die" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-activepassive]] and [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-idiom]])

# mighty people will be taken away, but not by human hands

This means that it is God who causes people to die, not people. Also, this can be stated in active form. AT: "it is God and not humans who cause mighty people to die" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-euphemism]] and [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-activepassive]])

# not by human hands

Here people are represented by their "hands." AT: "not by humans" or "not by people" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-synecdoche]])

# translationWords

* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/king]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/noble]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/evil]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/favor]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/works]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/death]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/mighty]]