# The gates at the rivers are forced open

This can be stated in active form. AT: "The enemy forces open the gates at the rivers" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-activepassive]])

# The gates at the rivers

This refers to the gates that controlled the flow and direction of the river.

# Huzzab is stripped of her clothes and is taken away

This can be stated in active form. AT: "The enemy strips Huzzab of her clothes and takes her away" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-activepassive]])

# Huzzab is stripped of her clothes and is taken away

The exact meaning of the word "Huzzab" is uncertain. Two possible meanings are 1) it is the name of a queen in Nineveh and the sentence means that the attacking soldiers have stripped her of her clothes in order to humiliate her and then have carried her off into captivity or 2) it is the name of an idol and the sentence means that the attackers have stripped the gold and silver off the idol and have carried it away. (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/translate-unknown]] and [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-explicit]])

# her female servants moan like doves

The moaning sounds that the female servants make sound like the sounds that doves make.

# her female servants

If the word "Huzzab" refers to a queen, then this phrase refers to the young women who attended her. If the word "Huzzab" refers to an idol, then this phrase refers to the young women who worked as temple prostitutes.

# beating on their breasts

Beating one's breast was a gesture used to express great mourning. (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/translate-symaction]])

# translationWords

* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/gate]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/ruin]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/queen]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/servant]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/dove]]