# Nineveh is like a leaking pool of water, with its people fleeing away like rushing water

Nahum compares the way that the people flee from the city of Nineveh with the way that water gushes from a reservoir of water when the dam has been broken. (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-simile]])

# Take the silver plunder ... Nineveh's beautiful things

It is not clear who is speaking here. This may be an apostrophe in which Nahum gives directions to the attackers, or the attackers may be speaking and giving directions to one another. (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-apostrophe]])

# Take the silver plunder, take the gold plunder

The word "plunder" means things stolen by force, usually in war. AT: "Take the silver as plunder, take the gold as plunder" or "Take the silver, take the gold"

# there is no end to it

The words "no end" are an exaggeration to express that there is a great amount of something. AT: "there is so much of it" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-hyperbole]])

# to the splendor of all Nineveh's beautiful things

This phrase refers to the silver, gold, and other treasures in Nineveh. The verb may be supplied from the previous phrase. AT: "there is no end to the splendor of all Nineveh's beautiful treasures" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-ellipsis]])

# Everyone's heart melts

Nahum speaks of the people losing courage as if their hearts melt like wax. AT: "Everyone loses courage" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metaphor]])

# everyone's knees strike together

This describes a physical response to great fear. The people's legs shake so badly that their knees knock together and they are unable to walk or run.

# translationWords

* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/nineveh]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/water]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/peoplegroup]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/silver]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/gold]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/ruin]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/heart]]