# General Information:

Yahweh continues speaking about the people of Judah. In verse 12, Jeremiah makes a comment.

# I will sing a song of mourning ... a funeral song will be sung for the meadows

Yahweh is mourning for the land of Israel as if it were a person who died. (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-parallelism]] and [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-personification]])

# a funeral song will be sung

This can be stated in active form. AT: "I will sing a funeral song" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-activepassive]])

# meadows

"fields where the animals graze"

# For they are burned

This can be stated in active form. AT: "Because someone has burned the meadows and pastures" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-activepassive]])

# They will not hear the sound of any cattle

"Nobody will hear the sound of cattle there"

# a hideout for jackals

"a place for jackals to hide." Jackals are fierce wild dogs.

# places without inhabitants

"places where no people live"

# What man is wise enough to understand this?

Yahweh uses this rhetorical question to emphasize that only a very wise person will understand the things he has said. This question can be written as a statement. AT: "Only people who are very wise can understand these things." (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-rquestion]])

# To whom has the mouth of Yahweh spoken, and he will declare it

Yahweh uses this rhetorical question to emphasize that only the people he has spoken to can declare these things. This question can be written as a statement. AT: "Only those who have been taught by Yahweh can explain these things to others." (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-rquestion]])

# the mouth of Yahweh

Here Yahweh's speech is represented by his "mouth". AT: "Yahweh" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-synecdoche]])

# Why has the land perished and been destroyed ... pass through?

Yahweh uses this rhetorical question to emphasize that only a wise person could explain why the land has been destroyed. This question can be written as a statement. AT: "Only a wise person could explain why the land has perished and been destroyed ... pass through." (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-rquestion]])

# has the land perished and been destroyed

This can be stated in active form. Both "perished" and "been ruined" describe the land being ruined. AT: "is the land ruined" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-activepassive]] and [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-doublet]])

# translationWords

* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/mourn]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/cow]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/jerusalem]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/ruin]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/kingdomofjudah]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/wise]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/understand]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/perish]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/desert]]