# What man is wise enough to understand this?

Yahweh uses this rhetorical question to emphasize that only a very wise person will understand the things he has said. This question can be written as a statement. Alternate translation: "Only people who are very wise can understand these things." (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-rquestion]])

# To whom has the mouth of Yahweh spoken, and he will declare it?

Yahweh uses this rhetorical question to emphasize that only the people he has spoken to can declare these things. This question can be written as a statement. Alternate translation: "Only those who have been taught by Yahweh can explain these things to others." (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-rquestion]])

# the mouth of Yahweh

Here Yahweh's speech is represented by his "mouth." Alternate translation: "Yahweh" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-synecdoche]])

# Why has the land perished and been destroyed ... pass through?

Yahweh uses this rhetorical question to emphasize that only a wise person could explain why the land has been destroyed. This question can be written as a statement. Alternate translation: "Only a wise person could explain why the land has perished and been destroyed ... pass through." (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-rquestion]])

# has the land perished and been destroyed

This can be stated in active form. Both "perished" and "been ruined" describe the land being ruined. Alternate translation: "is the land ruined" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-activepassive]] and [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-doublet]])

