# General Information:

Yahweh tells the people of Judah to mourn for the coming destruction of the land.

# Yahweh of hosts says this

Jeremiah often uses these words to introduce an important message from Yahweh. See how you translated this in [Jeremiah 6:6](../06/06.md).

# Summon funeral singers; let them come ... Send out for women skilled at lamenting; let them come

These two phrases have the same meaning. They emphasize that they are to call funeral singers to come. AT: "Get women who are trained in mourning and bring those women here" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-parallelism]])

# Summon funeral singers

"Call women who are professional singers at funerals"

# let them come

This is an idiom. AT: "tell the women to come" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-idiom]])

# Send out for women skilled at lamenting

The phrase "send out for" is an idiom. AT: "Send people out to get women who are skilled at mourning" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metonymy]])

# Let them hurry and sing a mournful song ... and our eyelids flow with water

Here Yahweh says what the people of Judah will say when the destruction comes. The words "us" and "our" refer to the people of Judah and does not include Yahweh. This may be written instead as a command from Yahweh to the people. AT: "Tell them to hurry and sing a song to mourn for you, so your eyes may run with tears and your eyelids flow with water" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-exclusive]])

# so our eyes may run with tears and our eyelids flow with water

This describes the people crying a lot. AT: "so we will cry very hard with tears flowing from our eyes" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-explicit]])