# General Information:

Here Yahweh is saying what the people of Judah will say when he destroys the land.

# For death has come through our windows ... young men in the city squares

The people of Judah will compare death to a person who can climb in windows to attack the people inside and attacks people in the palaces, streets, and city squares. (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-personification]])

# palaces

fancy houses where kings live. Death will come to rich and poor alike.

# city squares

marketplaces

# This is Yahweh's declaration

Yahweh speaks of himself by name to express the certainty of what he is declaring. See how you translated this in [Jeremiah 1:8](../01/07.md). AT: "This is what Yahweh has declared" or "This is what I, Yahweh, have declared" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-123person]])

# the corpses of men will fall like dung ... like grain stalks after the reapers

These two phrases mean the same thing and emphasize the large number dead bodies. AT: "dead bodies will fall all over the place" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-parallelism]])

# corpses of men will fall like dung in the fields

This describes the great number of people who will die, by comparing their bodies to dung that falls in the fields. AT: "dead bodies will drop everywhere like animal dung falls all over the fields" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-simile]])

# like grain stalks after the reapers

This describes the great number of people who will die, by comparing their bodies to cut stalks of grain. AT: "like stalks of grain fall everywhere after the farmers cut them down" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-simile]])

# there will be no one to gather them

"there will be nobody to gather the dead bodies"

# translationWords

* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/death]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/dung]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/grain]]