# General Information:

These are the words of Yahweh.

# See

Yahweh uses this word here to draw the people's attention to what he says next. AT: "Listen" or "Indeed" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-idiom]])

# days are coming

This is an idiom. AT: "there will be a time" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-idiom]])

# this is Yahweh's declaration

Yahweh speaks of himself by name to express the certainty of what he is declaring. See how you translated this in [Jeremiah 1:8](../01/07.md). AT: "this is what Yahweh has declared" or "this is what I, Yahweh, have declared" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-123person]])

# all the circumcised who are such only in their body

This refers to the people of Israel who have entered into Yahweh's covenant by getting circumcised physically, but who have not changed their inner beings by following his laws. AT: "all those people who have changed their bodies by circumcising them but who have not changed their inner beings" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metaphor]])

# all the people who cut the hair on their heads very short

This probably refers to people who cut their hair short in order to honor a pagan god. Some modern versions interpret this Hebrew expression as "all the people who live on the edge of the wilderness."

# For all these nations are uncircumcised

The word "nations" refers to the people who live in these places. Foreigners being uncircumcised was a sign that they were not in Yahweh's covenant. AT: "For the people of these nations did not enter into a covenant with Yahweh through circumcision" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metonymy]] and [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-explicit]])

# all the house of Israel has an uncircumcised heart

The "heart" represents a person's will and desires. An "uncircumcised heart" represents the character of a person that does not follow Yahweh and his laws. Also, the "house" of Israel refers to the people of Israel. AT: "all the people of Israel are only circumcised on the outside and have not changed their hearts" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metonymy]] and [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metaphor]])

# translationWords

* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/biblicaltimeday]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/punish]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/circumcise]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/body]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/egypt]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/kingdomofjudah]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/edom]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/ammon]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/moab]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/desert]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/nation]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/house]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/kingdomofisrael]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/uncircumcised]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/heart]]