# General Information:

Yahweh speaks of how the cities of Jerusalem and Samaria have been unfaithful to him in a metaphor in which he refers to them as two prostitutes. This metaphor continues through [Ezekiel 23:34](./33.md). (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metaphor]])

# The word of Yahweh came

This is an idiom that is used to introduce something that God told his prophets or his people. See how you translated this in [Ezekiel 3:16](../03/16.md). AT: "Yahweh spoke this message" or "Yahweh spoke these words" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-idiom]])

# Son of man

"Son of a human being" or "Son of humanity." God calls Ezekiel this to emphasize that Ezekiel is only a human being. God is eternal and powerful, but humans are not. See how you translated this in [Ezekiel 2:1](../02/01.md). AT: "Mortal person" or "Human"

# Their breasts were squeezed

This can be stated in active form. AT: "Men squeezed their breasts" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-activepassive]])

# their virgin nipples were fondled there

This phrase means basically the same thing as the previous phrase and emphasizes the immoral behavior of the two young women. This can be stated in active form. AT: "there men fondled their virgin nipples" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-parallelism]] and [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-activepassive]])

# fondled

to be touched lovingly or softly

# they became mine

This means that he married them and they became his wives. AT: "they became my wives" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-explicit]])

# Their names mean this: Oholah means Samaria, and Oholibah means Jerusalem

"Oholah represents Samaria, and Oholibah represents Jerusalem." In this metaphor Samaria is spoken of as if it were Oholah and Jerusalem is spoken of as if it were Oholibah. This speaks of how these cities were unfaithful to Yahweh as if they were unfaithful wives. (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metaphor]])

# Oholah

This is the name of a woman that means "her tent." (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/translate-names]])

# Oholibah

This is the name of a woman that means "my tent is in her." (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/translate-names]])

# translationWords

* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/wordofgod]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/sonofman]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/prostitute]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/egypt]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/virgin]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/samaria]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/jerusalem]]