# General Information:

Yahweh continues his metaphor in which he speaks of the cities of Jerusalem and Samaria as if they were two prostitutes. This metaphor continues through [Ezekiel 23:34](./33.md). (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metaphor]])

# will come against you

This is an idiom. AT: "will attack you" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-idiom]])

# with weapons

The Hebrew word translated here as "weapons" is rare. Many modern versions translate it in this way, but some versions leave this phrase out.

# They will set large shields, small shields, and helmets against you all around

These defensive items are used to refer to various types of soldiers. AT: "Soldiers will attack you on all sides carrying large shields, small shields, and wearing helmets" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metonymy]])

# For I will set my jealous anger on you, and they will deal with you in fury

Here Yahweh speaks of causing the armies to attack them because he is angry with them as if his anger where something that he was placing upon them. AT: Because I am very jealous for you, I will cause them to act furiously towards you" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metaphor]])

# They will cut off your noses and your ears

This describes the punishment in Babylon for married women who slept with men that are not their husbands. AT: "They will punish you as an adulteress, by cutting of your noses and your ears" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-explicit]])

# your survivors will fall by the sword

The word "fall" is a euphemism for "die". The word "sword" is a metonym for soldiers who kill with swords. AT: "men will kill your survivors with their swords" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-euphemism]] and [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metonymy]])

# your survivors will be devoured by fire

This speaks of the survivors being burned by fire as if the fire were an animal attacking and eating them. This can be stated in active form. AT: "your survivors will be burned by fire" or "fire will burn your survivors" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-personification]] and [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-activepassive]])