# General Information:

Yahweh continues his metaphor in which he speaks of the cities of Jerusalem and Samaria as if they were two prostitutes. This metaphor continues through [Ezekiel 23:34](./33.md). (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metaphor]])

# Behold

Those word "behold" here adds emphasis to what follows.

# give you into the hand of the ones you hate ... into the hand of the ones from whom you had turned away

These two phrases have the same meaning. It means that they will be captured by the men they used to prostitute themselves to. AT: "allow you to be captured by those you hate and had turned away from" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-explicit]])

# into the hand

Here the word "hand" refers to control. AT: "into the control" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metonymy]])

# unclothed and bare

These two words mean the same thing and emphasize that she will be completely naked. (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-doublet]])

# The naked shame of your prostitution will be revealed

This can be stated in active form. AT: "They will reveal the naked shame of your prostitution"

# your shameful behavior and your promiscuousness

These phrases both describe her prostitution and emphasize how bad this behavior was. The understood words in the parallel phrase may be supplied. AT: "your shameful behavior and your promiscuousness will be revealed" or "they will reveal your shameful behavior and your promiscuousness" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-doublet]] and [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-ellipsis]])