# Nimshi

Translate the name of this man the same as you did in [2 Kings 9:2](./01.md). (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/translate-names]])

# Now Joram

This word is used here to mark a break in the main story line. Here the author tells background information about about how Joram was wounded and went to recover in Jezreel. (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/writing-background]])

# all Israel

These refers only to the Israelite army and not to everyone who lives in Israel. AT: "he and his army" or "he and the Israelite army" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-synecdoche]])

# to be healed of

This can be stated in active form. AT: "to recover from" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-activepassive]])

# the wounds that the Arameans had given him

This means that he was wounded in battle with the Arameans. AT: "wounds that Joram got during the battle with the Aramean army" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-explicit]])

# against Hazael king of Aram

This refers to Hazael and his army. AT: "against Hazael king of Aram and his army" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-synecdoche]])

# Hazael

Translate the name of this man the same as you did in [2 Kings 8:8](../08/07.md). (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/translate-names]])

# Jehu said to the servants of Joram

This refers to the officers who were with Joram at Ramoth Gilead.

# If this is your opinion

"If you are in agreement with me" Jehu uses this phrase to refer to if people are supportive of him being king and of his decisions. AT: "If you truly want me to be your king" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-explicit]])

# in order to go tell this news in Jezreel

This refers to telling Joram and his army of Jehu's plans. AT: "to warn king Joram and his army in Jezreel" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-explicit]])

# Now Ahaziah

The word "now" is used here to mark a break in the main story line. Here the author tells background information about Ahaziah visiting Joram. (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/writing-background]])

# translationWords

* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/names/joram]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/names/aram]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/heal]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/chariot]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/rest]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/names/kingdomofjudah]]