# General Information:

This is a personal letter from John to Gaius. All instances of "you" and "your" refer to Gaius and are singular. (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-you]])

# The elder

This refers to John, the apostle and disciple of Jesus. He refers to himself as "elder" either because of his old age or because he is a leader in the church. The name of the author can be made explicit: "I, John the elder, am writing." (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-explicit]])

# Gaius

This is a fellow believer to whom John is writing this letter. (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/translate-names]])

# whom I love in truth

"whom I truly love"

# you may prosper in all things and be in health

"you may do well in all things and be healthy"

# just as your soul prospers

"just as you are doing well spiritually"

# brothers

"fellow believers"

# you walk in truth

Walking on a path is a metaphor for how a person lives his life. AT: "you are living your life according to God's truth" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metaphor]])

# my children

John speaks of those he taught to believe in Jesus as though they were his children. This emphasizes his love and concern for them. It could also be that he himself led them to the Lord. AT: "my spiritual children" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metaphor]])

# translationWords

* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/elder]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/beloved]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/love]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/true]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/pray]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/soul]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/rejoice]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/witness]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/walk]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/joy]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/children]]