# they go about on its walls

"violence and strife go about on her walls." (See: [Psalms 55:9](./008.md)) Violence and strife are spoken of as if they were people. This can be expressed by telling about the people who cause violence and strife. AT: "people walk about on the city's walls, being violent and fighting" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-personification]])

# on its walls

"along the tops of the city walls." Cities had thick walls around them to protect them from enemies. People could walk along the tops of the walls to see if any enemies were coming to the city.

# iniquity and mischief are in the middle of it

Iniquity and mischief are spoken of as if they were people. This can be expressed by telling about the people who do iniquity and mischief. AT: "people do iniquity and cause mischief in the middle of the city" or "people do sinful things and cause trouble in it" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-personification]])

# mischief

"trouble"

# Wickedness is in the middle of it

Wickedness is spoken of as if it were a person. This can be expressed by telling about the people who do wicked things. AT: "People do wicked things in the middle of the city" or "people destroy things in the city" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-personification]])

# oppression and deceit do not leave its streets

Oppression and deceit are spoken of as if they were people. This can be expressed by telling about the people who oppress and deceive others. AT: "People oppress and deceive others in the city streets, and they do not leave" or "People are always oppressing and deceiving others in the city streets" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-personification]])

# its streets

This may refer to the marketplaces in the city.

# translationWords

* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/iniquity]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/evil]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/oppress]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/deceive]]