# has raised his hands against those

Raising the hand against people represents attacking them. This may be a metaphor for saying things that put people in danger or cause them trouble. AT: "has attacked those" or "has betrayed those" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metonymy]] and [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metaphor]])

# His mouth

Someone's "mouth" represents what he says. AT: "What my friend said" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metonymy]])

# His mouth was smooth as butter

Speech that is pleasant or nice to hear is spoken of as if it were smooth and easy to swallow. AT: "What he said was pleasant like smooth butter" or "He said nice things" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-simile]])

# hostile

"mean" or "hateful"

# his words

"what he said"

# his words were softer than oil

People put oil on their skin to make it feel nice, and they put it on wounds to help them heal. Speech that is kind or helpful is spoken of as if it were soft or soothing. AT: "what he said was kind and soothing like oil" or "he said kind things" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-simile]])

# they were actually drawn swords

Speech that causes people trouble is spoken of as if it were swords that wound people. AT: "what he said wounded people as drawn swords do" or "what he said caused people trouble" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metaphor]])

# drawn swords

The word "drawn" here means that the swords were pulled out of their covers and ready to be used.

# translationWords

* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/raise]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/hand]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/peace]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/covenant]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/heart]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/oil]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/sword]]