# Place your burdens

Here the psalmist is speaking to other godly people.

# Place your burdens on Yahweh

Here troubles are spoken of as if they were burdens that people have to carry. Trusting God to help us when we have troubles is spoken of as putting our burdens on him so that he can carry them for us. AT: "Give Yahweh your problems" or "Trust God to help you with all your troubles like someone who trusts a stronger person to carry his load" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metaphor]])

# he will sustain you

Taking care of someone or helping someone when he has troubles is spoken of as supporting him. AT: "he will take care of you" or "he will help you"

# he will never allow a righteous person to totter

A person who is about to be severely harmed by some sort of disaster is spoken of as if he is tottering or swaying and is about to fall down. AT: "he will not let a righteous person sway and fall down" or "he will not let a righteous person to be destroyed" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metaphor]])

# But you, God

The author speaks to God now.

# the pit of destruction

This probably refers to the grave or hell.

# will bring the wicked down into the pit of destruction

This represents causing people to die. AT: "will cause the wicked to die" or "will cause wicked people to die and go to the place where dead people are" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metonymy]])

# bloodthirsty and deceitful men

"people who lie and who want to kill others" or "deceitful murderers"

# even half as long as others

"even half as long as other people live"

# translationWords

* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/burden]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/righteous]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/evil]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/pit]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/deceive]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/life]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/trust]]