# General Information:

Each verse is a parallelism that contains two rhetorical questions. (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-parallelism]] and [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-rquestion]])

# Are you the first man that was born?

The implicit answer here is "no." This rhetorical question can be written as a statement. AT: "You are not the first man that was born." (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-rquestion]])

# Were you brought into existence before the hills?

The implicit answer here is "no." This rhetorical question can be written as a statement. AT: "You were not brought into existence before the hills." or "God did not bring you into existence before he brought the hills into existence." (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-rquestion]])

# Were you brought

This can be stated in active form. AT: "Did God bring you" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-activepassive]])

# Have you heard the secret knowledge of God?

The implicit answer here is "no." This rhetorical question can be written as a statement. AT: "You have not heard the secret knowledge of God." (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-rquestion]])

# Do you limit wisdom to yourself?

This rhetorical question emphasizes that he cannot limit wisdom to himself. This can be written as a statement. AT: "You cannot limit wisdom to yourself." or "You are not the only wise person." (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-rquestion]])

# What do you know that we do not know?

The implicit answer here is "nothing." This question can be written as a statement. AT: "There is nothing that you know that we do not know." or "Everything you know, we also know." (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-rquestion]])

# What do you understand that is not also in us?

This speaks of the men having understanding as if it were something "inside" them. AT: "Everything you understand, we also understand." or "We understand everything that you understand." (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-rquestion]])

# translationWords

* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/know]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/god]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/wise]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/understand]]