# Why does your heart carry you away?

Here the "heart" represents a person's emotions. AT: "Why do your emotions take you away?" or "Why do you allow your emotions to guide your decisions?" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metonymy]] and [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-idiom]])

# Why do your eyes flash

This probably refers to Job appearing angry, specifically the appearance of his eyes. AT: "Why do your eyes look angry" or "Why are you angry" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-explicit]])

# turn your spirit

Here the "spirit" refers to the whole person. AT: "turn yourself" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-synecdoche]])

# bring out such words from your mouth

This describes him speaking. AT: "so you say harsh things against him" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-explicit]])

# What is man ... What is he who is born

These two questions are basically the same and are used together to emphasize that a man cannot be perfect. (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-parallelism]])

# What is man that he should be clean?

This rhetorical question is asked to emphasize that a man cannot be completely "clean." This can be written as a statement. AT: "A man, he cannot be completely clean." (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-rquestion]])

# clean

A person who God considers spiritually acceptable is spoken of as if the person were physically clean. (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metaphor]])

# What is he who is born of a woman that he should be righteous?

This rhetorical question is asked to emphasize that a man cannot be completely "righteous." This can be written as a statement. AT: "A man who is born from a woman cannot be completely righteous." (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-rquestion]])

# translationWords

* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/heart]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/turn]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/spirit]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/clean]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/righteous]]