# Connecting Statement:

Eliphaz continues describing the wicked man he began to describe in [Job 15:20](./19.md).

# return out of darkness

Here "darkness" is a metaphor for trouble or misfortune. AT: "escape misfortune" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-idiom]])

# the sword waits for him

Here "the sword" is a metonym that represents an enemy who is waiting to kill the evil man. Possible meanings are 1) he is worried that someone will murder him. AT: "he worries that someone is about to murder him" or 2) it is certain that he is going to be murdered. AT: "someone is waiting to murder him" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metonymy]] and [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-explicit]])

# for bread

Here "bread" refers to food in general. AT: "for food" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-synecdoche]])

# the day of darkness

This is an idiom. AT: "the day of disaster" or "the moment of his death" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-idiom]])

# is at hand

This is an idiom. AT: "is coming soon" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-idiom]])

# Distress and anguish make him afraid; they prevail against him

The words "distress" and "anguish" mean basically the same thing and emphasize the intensity of the emotion. Here these feelings are spoken of as if they were an enemy who is attacking the wicked man. (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-doublet]] and [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-personification]])

# prevail against

"overpower" or "defeat"

# as a king ready for battle

This compares how his distress and anguish overpower him to how a king, who is ready for battle, would prevail against him. AT: "just like a king, who is ready for a battle, would prevail against him" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-simile]])

# translationWords

* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/darkness]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/sword]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/bread]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/anguish]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/king]]