# General Information:

Isaiah continues to describe the time when God will save the people of Israel. Although these events will happen in the future ([Isaiah 9:1-2](./01.md)), Isaiah describes them as if they have already happened. This emphasizes that they certainly will happen. (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-pastforfuture]])

# For the yoke of his burden ... you have shattered as on the day of Midian

Isaiah speaks of the Israelites, who are the Assyrians' slaves, as if they were an ox wearing a yoke. This will happen in the future, but he speaks as if it has already happened. AT: "For as on the day of Midian you will set the people of Israel free from being slaves to their oppressors like a person removes a yoke from the shoulders of an animal" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metaphor]] and [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-pastforfuture]])

# For the yoke of his burden ... his shoulder ... his oppressor

Isaiah speaks of the people of Israel as if they were one man. AT: "For the yoke of their burden ... their shoulders ... their oppressor" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metaphor]])

# the beam across his shoulder

The beam is the part of the yoke that goes over the shoulders of the ox.

# beam

Another possible meaning is "staff," a long piece of wood that a person uses to beat the oxen so they will work and a symbol of one person's power to rule other people.

# the rod of his oppressor

Isaiah speaks of the power the oppressor has over the people of Judah as if it were the piece of wood used by a person to beat oxen so they will work. (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metaphor]])

# as on the day of Midian

The word "day" is an idiom that can refer to an event that takes more than one day to happen. AT: "as when you defeated the Midianites" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-idiom]])

# every boot treading in the tumult and the garments rolled in blood will be burned

This can be stated in active form. AT: "you will burn the boots of the soldiers and their clothes, which are covered with blood" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-activepassive]])

# burned, fuel for the fire

This can be made more explicit by translating it as a new sentence. AT: "burned. You will make the boots and the garments fuel for the fire" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-explicit]])

# translationWords

* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/yoke]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/burden]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/rod]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/oppress]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/midian]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/blood]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/fire]]