# General Information:

Isaiah continues to describe the time when God will save the people of Israel ([Isaiah 9:1-2](./01.md)). Although these events will happen in Isaiah's future, he describes them as if they have already happened. This emphasizes that they certainly will happen. (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-pastforfuture]])

# For to us a child has been born, to us a son has been given

These two phrases mean basically the same thing. The word "us" refers to both the speaker and the hearer and so is inclusive. This can be stated in active form. AT: "For the Lord will give to us a child" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-parallelism]] and [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-inclusive]] and [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-activepassive]])

# the rule will be on his shoulder

His authority to rule is spoken of as if it were the robe that is a symbol of his authority. AT: "he will wear his royal robe on his shoulder" or "he will have authority to rule as king." (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metaphor]])

# Counselor

one who advises kings

# Of the increase of his government and of peace there will be no end

"As time passes he will rule over more and more people and enable them to live more and more peacefully"

# rules on the throne of David

Sitting on the "throne of David" is a metonym for having the right to rule; only David's descendants could be king over Israel. AT: "has the right to rule as David's descendant" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metonymy]])

# his kingdom, to establish it and sustain it with justice and with righteousness

This can be translated as a new sentence. AT: "his kingdom. He will establish and protect his kingdom, and he will do what is fair and just"

# Yahweh of hosts

See how you translated this in [Isaiah 1:9](../01/09.md).