# of Judah and Jerusalem

This refers to the people from these places. AT: "of the people from Judah and Jerusalem" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metonymy]])

# are you not God in heaven? Are you not the ruler over all the kingdoms of the nations?

Jehoshaphat uses this rhetorical question to emphasize that God is in heaven and his authority over all things. This question can be written as statement. AT: "you are indeed God in heaven and the ruler over all the kings of the earth." (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-rquestion]])

# Power and might are in your hand

The words "Power" and "might" mean basically the same thing and emphasize the greatness of Yahweh's power. The word "hand" refers to possession. AT: "You possess great power" or "You have great power and might" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-doublet]] and [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-synecdoche]])

# Our God, did you not drive out the inhabitants of this land ... to the descendants of Abraham?

Jehoshaphat uses this rhetorical question to emphasize that God drove their enemies from their land and gave it to the Israelites. This question can be written as statement. AT: "It was you who drove out those who lived in this land for the sake of your people Israel and who gave it permanently to the descendants of Abraham." (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-rquestion]])

# translationWords

* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/assembly]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/jerusalem]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/houseofgod]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/courtyard]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/heaven]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/nation]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/hand]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/forever]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/descendant]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/abraham]]