# thirty-five years old ... twenty-five years

"35 years old ... 25 years" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/translate-numbers]])

# Azubah, the daughter of Shilhi

"Azubah" was the name of Jehoshaphat's mother. Shilhi was the name of Azubah's father. (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/translate-names]])

# He walked in the ways of Asa, his father; he did not turn away from them

This means that he lived in a way that pleased Yahweh as his father had done. Here "walking" is an idiom for the way a person lives and behaves. AT: "He did things that were pleasing to Yahweh, like his father Asa had done, and he did not stop doing those things" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-explicit]] and [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-idiom]])

# he did what was right in the eyes of Yahweh

The eyes here represent seeing, and seeing represents judgment. Yahweh saw and approved of Jehoshaphat's actions. See how you translated a similar phrase in [2 Chronicles 14:2](../14/01.md). AT: "he did what Yahweh judged to be right" or "he did what Yahweh considered to be right" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metaphor]])

# the high places were not taken away

This can be stated in active form. AT: "he did not get rid of the high places" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-activepassive]])

# The people still had not directed their hearts to the God

This means that the people did not desire to obey God and were not devoted to him. Here people's "hearts" represent their will and their desires. AT: "The people were still not devoted to the God" or "The people still were not committed to following the God" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metonymy]])

# translationWords

* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/reign]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/asa]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/turn]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/highplaces]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/heart]]