# General Information:

Yahweh continues to speak about the violent son.

# the poor and needy

The words "poor" and "needy" share similar meanings and emphasize that these are people who cannot help themselves. (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-doublet]])

# he lifts up his eyes to the idols

The idiom "lifts up his eyes" refers to looking toward something. With reference to idols, this gesture represents worshiping or praying to idols. See how you translated a similar phrase in [Ezekiel 18:6](./05.md). AT: "he worships the idols" or "he prays to the idols" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/translate-symaction]])

# interest

This word refers to the money paid by a person to use borrowed money. However, some modern versions interpret "any interest" in this passage as "too much interest."

# should that man live? Surely he will not!

Yahweh asks this as a leading question in order to emphasize the negative answer. AT: "he will certainly not live!" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-rquestion]])

# his blood will be on him

Here the word "blood" represents death. For blood to be on a person is an idiom that means the person is responsible for that death. AT: "he will be responsible for his own death" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metonymy]] and [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-idiom]])

# translationWords

* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/oppress]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/seize]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/pledge]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/idol]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/profit]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/life]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/death]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/blood]]