# Connecting Statement:

Peter arrives in Jerusalem and begins talking to the Jews there.

# General Information:

This is the beginning of a new event in the story.

# Now

This marks a new part of the story. (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/writing-newevent]])

# the brothers

The phrase "brothers" here refers to the believers in Judea.

# who were in Judea

"who were in the province of Judea"

# had received the word of God

This expression refers to the fact that the Gentiles believed the gospel message about Jesus. AT: "believed the message of God about Jesus" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metonymy]])

# had come up to Jerusalem

Jerusalem was higher than almost any other place in Israel, so it was normal for Israelites to speak of coming up to Jerusalem and going down from it.

# they who belonged to the circumcision group

This is a reference to some of the Jews who believed that every believer must be circumcised. AT: "some Jewish believers in Jerusalem who wanted all followers of Christ to be circumcized" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metonymy]])

# uncircumcised men

The phrase "uncircumcised men" refers to Gentiles. (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metonymy]])

# ate with them

It was against Jewish tradition for Jews to eat with Gentiles.

# translationWords

* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/apostle]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/brother]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/names/judea]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/gentile]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/receive]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/wordofgod]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/names/peter]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/names/jerusalem]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/circumcise]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/circumcise]]