# Behold

This marks the beginning of another event in the larger story. It may involve different people than the previous events. Your language may have a way of doing this.

# among themselves

Possible meanings are 1) each one was thinking to himself, or 2) they were speaking among themselves.

# blaspheming

Jesus was claiming to be able to do things the scribes thought only God can do.

# knew their thoughts

Jesus knew what they were thinking either supernaturally or because he could see them talking to each other.

# Why are you thinking evil in your hearts?

Jesus used this question to rebuke the scribes. (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-rquestion]])

# evil

This is moral evil or wickedness, not simply error in fact.

# in your hearts

Here "hearts" refers to their minds or their thoughts. (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metonymy]])

# For which is easier, to say, 'Your sins are forgiven,' or to say, 'Get up and walk'?

Jesus uses this question to make the scribes think about what might prove whether or not he could really forgive sins. AT: "I just said 'Your sins are forgiven.' Perhaps it is harder to say 'Get up and walk,' because the proof of whether or not I can heal the man will be shown by whether or not he gets up and walks." or "You may think that it is easier to say 'Your sins are forgiven' than it is to say 'Get up and walk.'" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-rquestion]])

# which is easier, to say, 'Your sins are forgiven,' or to say, 'Get up and walk'?

The quotes can be translated as indirect quotes. AT: "which is easier, to tell someone that his sins are forgiven, or to tell him to get up and walk?" or "you may think that it is easier to tell someone that his sins are forgiven than to tell him to get up and walk." (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-quotations]])

# Your sins are forgiven

Here "your" is singular. This can be stated in active form. AT: "I have forgiven your sins" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-you]] and [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-activepassive]])

# that you may know

"I will prove to you." The "you" is plural. (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-you]])

# your mat ... your house

Here "you" is singular. (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-you]])

# go to your house

Jesus is not forbidding the man to go elsewhere. He is giving the man the opportunity to go home.

# translationWords

* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/scribe]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/blasphemy]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/jesus]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/evil]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/heart]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/sin]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/forgive]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/sonofman]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/authority]]