# Connecting Statement:

This describes how Jesus healed another woman while he was on the way to the Jewish official's house.

# Behold

The word "Behold" alerts us to a new person in the story. Your language may have a way of doing this.

# who suffered from a discharge of blood

"who had been bleeding" or "who frequently had a flow of blood." She was probably bleeding from her womb even when it was not the normal time for it. Some cultures may have a polite way of referring to this condition. (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-euphemism]])

# twelve years

"12 years" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/translate-numbers]])

# his garment

"his robe" or "what he was wearing"

# For she had said to herself, "If only I touch his clothes, I will be made well."

She said this to herself before she touched Jesus' garment. This tells why she touched Jesus' garment.
(See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-events]] and [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/translate-versebridge]])

# If only I touch his clothes

According to Jewish law, because she was bleeding she was not supposed to touch anyone. She touches his clothes so that Jesus' power would heal her and yet (she thought) he would not know that she touched him. (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-explicit]])

# But Jesus

"The woman was hoping she could touch him secretly, but Jesus"

# Daughter

The woman was not Jesus' real daughter. Jesus was speaking to her politely. If this is confusing, it can also be translated "Young woman" or even omitted.

# your faith has made you well

"because you believed in me, I will heal you"

# the woman was healed from that hour

This can be stated in active form. AT: "Jesus healed her at that moment" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-activepassive]])

# translationWords

* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/jesus]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/turn]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/courage]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/faith]]