# Connecting Statement:

This is the account of Jesus healing a demon-possessed man who could not speak and how people responded.

# behold

The word "behold" alerts us to a new person in the story. Your language may have a way of doing this.

# a mute man ... was brought to Jesus

This can be stated in active form. AT: "someone brought a mute man ... to Jesus" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-activepassive]])

# mute

not able to talk

# possessed by a demon

This can be stated in active form. AT: "whom a demon had possessed" or "whom a demon was controlling" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-activepassive]])

# When the demon had been driven out

This can be stated in active form. AT: "After Jesus had forced the demon out" or "After Jesus had commanded the demon to leave" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-activepassive]])

# the mute man spoke

"the mute man began to speak" or "the man who had been mute spoke" or "the man, who was no longer mute, spoke"

# The crowds were astonished

"The people were amazed"

# This has never been seen

This can be stated in active form. AT: "This has never happened before" or "No one has ever done anything like this before" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-activepassive]])

# he drives out demons

"he forces demons to leave"

# he drives

The pronoun "he" refers to Jesus.

# translationWords

* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/demonpossessed]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/demon]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/castout]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/amazed]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/israel]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/pharisee]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/ruler]]