# my son, who was born from my body

David describes his son this way to emphasize the close bond between a father and his son. AT: "my own son" or "my dear son" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-explicit]])

# wants to take my life

This is a polite way to refer to killing someone. AT: "wants to kill me" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-euphemism]])

# How much more may this Benjamite now desire my ruin?

David uses this rhetorical question to express that he is not surprised that the man wants to kill him. This can be written as a statement. AT: "Of course this Benjamite desires my ruin!" or "I am not surprised this Benjamite desires my ruin as well!" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-rquestion]])

# desire my ruin

Here David describes the man's desire to kill him as if David were something that the man wanted to ruin. AT: "desire me to be killed" or "desire to kill me" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metaphor]])

# Leave him alone and let him curse

Here the phrase "leave him alone" means to not stop him from what he is doing. AT: "Do not stop him from cursing me" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-idiom]])

# will look at

Here "looking" means "considering." AT: "will consider" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-idiom]])

# the misery unleashed on me

Here David speaks of misery as if it were a dangerous animal that the Benjamite unleashed on him. (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-personification]])

# translationWords

* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/servant]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/body]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/life]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/benjamin]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/ruin]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/command]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/good]]