# braces

items that connect two things together. "clamps" or "hinges" 

# more bronze than could be weighed

This is an exaggeration to show that there was a very large quantity of bronze. This can be stated in active form. AT: "so much bronze that no one could weigh it" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-activepassive]] and [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-hyperbole]])

# more cedar trees than could be counted

This is an exaggeration to show that there was a very large number of cedar trees. This can be stated in active form. AT: "so many cedar trees that no one could count them" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-activepassive]] and [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-hyperbole]])

# The Sidonians and the Tyrians brought too many cedar logs to David to count

This is background information to explain who provided so many logs. (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/writing-background]])

# the house that is to be built for Yahweh

This can be stated in active form. AT: "the house that he will build for Yahweh" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-activepassive]])

# so that it will be famous and glorious in all other lands

Here the word "lands" refers to the people who lived there. AT: "so that people in every other land will know about it and think that it is glorious" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metonymy]])

# prepare for its building

"prepare to build it"

# translationWords

* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/gate]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/bronze]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/cedar]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/names/sidon]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/names/tyre]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/names/solomon]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/houseofgod]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/glory]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/death]]