# Yahweh your God is with you

This is an idiom that implies that Yahweh will help Israel to prosper. (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-idiom]])

# your ... you

These pronouns are plural in [1 Chronicles 22:18-19](./17.md). (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-you]])

# has given you peace on every side

"has caused all the nations who live around Israel to live peacefully with you"

# He has given the region's inhabitants into my hand

Here "hand" refers to power to defeat his enemies. AT: "He has given me power over everyone who lives around us" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metonymy]])

# The region is subdued before Yahweh and his people

This can be stated in active form. "The other nations no longer attack Yahweh and his people" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-activepassive]])

# Now

This word introduces something important that David is about to say.

# seek Yahweh your God

Seeking Yahweh represents either 1) asking God for help or 2) thinking about God and obeying him. (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metaphor]])

# with all your heart and your soul

Here "heart" and "soul" refer to the whole person. AT: "with your whole being" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-synecdoche]])

# Get up and build the holy place

It is understood that Solomon will not do the work personally, but he will direct others to do it. AT: "Get up and direct the workers as they build the holy place" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metonymy]])

# the house built for Yahweh's name

Here "name" refers to honor. This can be stated in active form. AT: "the temple you will build to honor Yahweh" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metonymy]] and [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-activepassive]])