# Also I said

The pronoun "I" refers to Nehemiah.

# What you are doing

"You" here refers to the Jewish nobles.

# Should you not walk in the fear of our God to prevent the taunts of the nations that are our enemies?

This is a rhetorical question that Nehemiah is using to scold the nobles. It can be translated as a statement. AT: "You should walk in the fear of our God to prevent the taunts of the nations that are our enemies." (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-rquestion]])

# walk in the fear of our God

This is and idiom. Here "walk" refers to a person's behavior and the way he lives. AT: "live your life in a way that honors God" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-idiom]])

# the taunts of the nations that are our enemies

The word "taunt" means "slander" or "mockery" and it can be expressed as a verb. AT: "the nations who are our enemies from taunting us" or "the enemy nations from mocking us" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-abstractnouns]])

# lending

borrowing or giving something to someone expecting repayment

# loans

This is any money, food, or property that one person could let another person borrow in order to repay debts. The borrower would then be indebted to the lender.

# percentage

A part of the value of the loan that the borrower was charged in interest.

# you exacted from them

"you charged them" or "you made them pay"

# translationWords

* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/good]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/walk]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/fear]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/god]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/nation]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/adversary]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/brother]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/servant]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/vineyard]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/olive]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/grain]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/wine]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/oil]]