# added to the evil they had done in the sight of Yahweh

This speaks of evil as if it were an object that a person could add to and make bigger. AT: "continued doing what Yahweh said was evil" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metaphor]])

# in the sight of Yahweh

The sight of Yahweh represents Yahweh's judgment or evaluation. AT: "according to Yahweh" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metaphor]])

# Ashtoreths

This is the plural of Ashtoroth, who was worshiped as a goddess in many different forms. See how you translated this in [Judges 2:13](../02/11.md).

# They abandoned Yahweh and no longer worshiped him

The author basically said the same thing twice for emphasis. These can be combined. AT: "They completely stopped worshiping Yahweh" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-parallelism]])

# They abandoned Yahweh

No longer obeying and worshiping Yahweh is spoken of as if the people left Yahweh and went somewhere else. (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metaphor]])

# Yahweh burned with anger toward Israel

Yahweh becoming angry is spoken of as if anger were a burning fire. AT: "Yahweh was very angry at Israel" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metaphor]])

# he sold them into the hand of the Philistines and into the hand of the Ammonites

Yahweh allowing the Philistines and the Ammonites to defeat the Israelites is spoken of as if he sold the Israelites to them. (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metaphor]])

# into the hand

Here "hand" represents power or control. (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metonymy]])

# translationWords

* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/israel]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/evil]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/yahweh]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/worship]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/baal]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/falsegod]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/aram]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/sidon]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/moab]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/ammon]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/philistines]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/angry]]