# the people of Israel called out to Yahweh

This means the people of Israel desperately asked Yahweh for help.

# because we abandoned our God

The people no longer obeying and worshiping Yahweh is spoken of as if they left Yahweh and went somewhere else. (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metaphor]])

# abandoned our God

The people are speaking to Yahweh and refer to him as "our God." This can be stated in second person. AT: "abandoned you, our God" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-123person]])

# Did I not deliver you ... Sidonians?

God is rebuking the people of Israel for their worship of other gods. This rhetorical question can be translated as a statement. AT: "I am the one who delivered you ... Sidonians." (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-rquestion]])

# Maonites

These are the people from the clan or family of Maon. (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/translate-names]])

# from their power

Here "power" represents the Amalekites and the Maonites. AT: "from them" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metonymy]])

# translationWords

* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/israel]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/call]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/yahweh]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/sin]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/god]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/worship]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/names/baal]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/deliverer]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/names/egypt]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/names/amorite]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/names/ammon]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/names/philistines]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/names/sidon]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/names/amalekite]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/power]]