# General Information:

Moses complains to Yahweh using several rhetorical questions. (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-rquestion]])

# Why have you treated your servant so badly? Why are you not pleased with me?

Moses used these questions to complain about the way God was treating him. They can be expressed as statements. Moses speaks of himself in the third person. AT: "You should not treat me, your servant, so badly. You should not be angry with me!" or "I, your servant, have done nothing wrong for you to treat me so badly!" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-rquestion]] and [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-123person]])

# You make me carry the load of all these people

Moses complains and speaks of leading the people and providing for them as if he were carrying a heavy load. AT: "You make me responsible for all these people, but it's too hard for me" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metaphor]])

# Did I conceive all these people?

Moses used this question to remind God that Moses was not their father. AT: "I am not the father of all these people." (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-rquestion]])

# Have I given them birth so that you should say to me, 'Carry ... baby?'

Moses wants God to remember that God told him to take care of the Israelites even though Moses was not their father. AT: "I have not given them birth, so you have no right to say to me, 'Carry ... baby'!" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-rquestion]])

# Carry them closely to your chest

To take care of the Israelites is spoken of as if it were to carry a helpless newborn baby. (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metaphor]])

# Should I carry them ... to give them?

This rhetorical question can be translated as a statement. AT: "You should not expect me to carry them ... to give them!" or "I am not able to carry them ... to give them!" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-rquestion]])

# translationWords

* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/servant]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/conceive]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/oath]]