# Connecting Statement:

The sixth of the seven angels begins to sound his trumpet.

# I heard a voice coming

The voice refers to the one who was speaking. John does not say who the speaker was, but it may have been God. AT: "I heard someone speaking" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-synecdoche]])

# horns of the golden altar

These are horn-shaped extensions at each of the four corners of the top of the altar.

# The voice said

The voice refers to the speaker. AT: "The speaker said" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-synecdoche]])

# The four angels who had been prepared for ... that year, were released

This can be stated with an active form. AT: "The angel released the four angels who had been prepared for ... that year" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-activepassive]])

# The four angels who had been prepared

This can be stated with an active form. AT: "The four angels whom God had prepared" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-activepassive]])

# for that hour, that day, that month, and that year

These words are used to show that there is a specific, chosen time and not just any time. AT: "for that exact time" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-parallelism]])

# translationWords

* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/angel]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/trumpet]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/voice]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/gold]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/altar]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/god]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/bond]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/euphrates]]