# General Information:

This begins the record of King Cyrus's command that the Jews rebuild God's temple in Jerusalem.

# In the first year of King Cyrus

It can be stated clearly that this is the first year of his reign. AT: "In year 1 of the reign of King Cyrus" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-explicit]] and [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/translate-numbers]])

# Let the house be rebuilt

This can be stated in active form. AT: "Let the Jews rebuild the house" or "The Jews must rebuild the house" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-activepassive]])

# sixty cubits

"60 cubits." You may convert this to a modern measure. AT: "twenty-seven meters" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/translate-numbers]] and [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/translate-bdistance]])

# cubits, with three rows of large stones and a row of new timber

This can be stated as a new sentence. Possible meanings are 1) this describes how to build the foundation. AT: "cubits. Build the foundation on three layers of large stones covered with one layer of timber" or 2) this describes how to build the walls. AT: "cubits. Build the house's walls with three layers of large stones alternating with one layer of timber" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-explicit]])

# let the cost be paid by the king's house

The phrase "the king's house" represents King Cyrus's own wealth in the royal treasury. This can be stated in active form. AT: "I will pay for it with money from the royal treasury" (See: [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-metonymy]] and [[rc://en/ta/man/translate/figs-activepassive]])

# translationWords

* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/king]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/names/cyrus]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/decree]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/houseofgod]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/names/jerusalem]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/sacrifice]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/gold]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/other/silver]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/names/nebuchadnezzar]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/kt/temple]]
* [[rc://en/tw/dict/bible/names/babylon]]